294
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Even with the widespread presence of technology,
spellcasters can be found in every corner of the galaxy.
Some spellcasters draw magic from other realities, some
from their mystical connections to cosmic forces, and
others rewrite the underlying code of the universe to cast
their spells.
With special gestures and utterances, a spellcaster can
call forth mystic energies, warp the mind, protect themself
against danger, or even create something from nothing.
Each class has its own method of learning, preparing,
and casting spells, and every individual spell produces a
specific effect, so learning new spells gives a spellcaster
an increasing array of options to accomplish their goals.
SPELL SLOTS
Characters of spellcasting classes can cast a number of spells
each day; the spells you can cast in a day are referred to as
spell slots. At 1st level, a character has only a small number
of 1st-rank spell slots per day, but as you advance in level, you
gain more spell slots of higher rank. A spell’s rank indicates
its overall power, from 1 to 10.
PREPARED SPELLS
If you’re a prepared spellcaster—such as a technomancer
(see Starfinder Tech Core)—you must spend time each day
preparing spells for that day. At the start of your daily
preparations, you select a number of spells of different
spell ranks, determined by your character level and class.
Your spells remain prepared until you cast them or until you
prepare spells again.
Each prepared spell is expended after a single casting,
so if you want to cast a particular spell more than once in
a day, you need to prepare that spell multiple times. The
exception to this rule is for spells with the cantrip trait; once
you prepare a cantrip, you can cast it as many times as you
want until the next time you prepare spells. See page 296
for more information on cantrips.
You might gain an ability that allows you to swap
prepared spells or perform other aspects of preparing spells
at different times throughout the day, but only your daily
preparation counts for the purpose of effects that last until
the next time you prepare spells.
CHAPTER 7:
SPELLS
Whether it comes in the form of eldritch artifacts, otherworldly beings, or witchwarpers altering
reality with strange spells, magic brings fantasy and wonder to Starfinder. This chapter explains how
spells work and how spellcasters prepare and cast their spells.
SPONTANEOUS SPELLS
If you’re a spontaneous spellcaster—such as a mystic—you
choose which spell from your spell repertoire that you’re
using a spell slot for at the moment you decide to cast it. This
provides you with more freedom in your spellcasting, but you
have fewer spells in your spell repertoire, as determined by
your character level and class. When you make your daily
preparations, all your spell slots are refreshed, but you don’t
get to change the spells in your repertoire.
HEIGHTENED SPELLS
Both prepared and spontaneous spellcasters can cast a spell
at a higher spell rank than that listed for the spell. This is
called heightening the spell. A prepared spellcaster can
heighten a spell by preparing it in a higher-rank slot than
its normal spell rank, while a spontaneous spellcaster can
heighten a spell by casting it using a higher-rank spell slot,
SPELLCASTING IN STARFINDER
After Triune’s Signal connected cultures across the
Universe, the peoples of the galaxy have learned more
than ever before about the Universe’s composition
thanks to science and technology. As technology
improves and creates mass-market marvels rivaling
what was once only possible for a powerful spellcaster,
magic is more static, with arcane universities,
occult societies, and religious orders preserving
ancient techniques and tomes into the modern
era. Many specialty tech items incorporate hybrid
magitechnology, and most spellcasters carry a backup
gun or other tech gear on them for when they run
out of spells. Magic and technology coexist, but most
spellcasters use analog spellcasting, and blending the
two together to create a hybrid item requires training.
Only a few spellcasters mix magic with technology—
they’re seen as mavericks by most established magical
institutions. Technomancers and spellcasters who
have learned to command machines or connect with
computers using magic blaze a trail few have explored.
295
so long as they know the spell at that rank (see Heightened
Spontaneous Spells below). When you heighten your spell,
the spell’s rank increases to match the higher rank of the
spell slot you’ve prepared it in or used to cast it. This is useful
for any spell, because some effects, such as counteracting,
depend on the spell’s rank.
In addition, many spells have additional specific benefits
when they are heightened, such as increased damage. These
extra benefits are described at the end of the spell’s stat
block. Some heightened entries specify one or more ranks
at which the spell must be prepared or cast to gain these
extra advantages. Each of these heightened entries states
specifically which aspects of the spell change at the given
rank. Read the heightened entry only for the spell rank you’re
using or preparing; if its benefits are meant to include any of
the effects of a lower-rank heightened entry, those benefits
will be included in the entry.
Other heightened entries give a number after a plus sign,
indicating that heightening grants extra advantages over
multiple ranks. The listed effect applies for every increment
of ranks by which the spell is heightened above its lowest
spell rank, and the benefit is cumulative. For example, slice
reality says “Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8.”
Because slice reality deals 7d8 void damage at 6th rank, a
7th-rank slice reality would deal 8d8 void damage, an 8thrank
spell would deal 9d8 void damage, and so on.
Heightened Spontaneous Spells
If you’re a spontaneous spellcaster, you must know a spell at
the specific rank that you want to cast it in order to heighten
it. You can add a spell to your spell repertoire at more than
a single rank so that you have more options when casting it.
For example, if you added skyfire wings to your repertoire as
a 3rd-rank spell and again as a 7th-rank spell, you could cast
it as a 3rd-rank or a 7th-rank spell; however, you couldn’t cast
it as a 5th-rank spell.
Many spontaneous spellcasting classes provide abilities
like the signature spells class feature, which allows you to
cast a limited number of spells as heightened versions even if
you know the spell at only a single rank.
As a spontaneous caster, you can also choose to cast
a lower-rank spell using a higher-rank spell slot without
heightening it or knowing it at a higher rank. This casts the
spell at the rank you know the spell, not the rank of the
higher slot. The spell doesn’t have any heightened effects,
so it’s usually not a very efficient use of your magic outside
of highly specific circumstances. For instance, if your party
was having trouble with an invisible enemy, and you had
revealing light in your repertoire but had already spent all
of your 2nd-rank spell slots, it might be worth it to use a
3rd-rank spell slot to cast the spell, even though it’d have no
heightened benefit.
CANTRIPS
A cantrip is a special type of spell that’s weaker than other
spells but can be used with greater freedom and flexibility.
The title of a cantrip’s stat block says “Cantrip” instead of
“Spell”, and the spell has the cantrip trait. Casting a cantrip
doesn’t use up your spell slots; you can cast a cantrip at will,
any number of times per day. If you’re a prepared caster, you
can prepare a specific number of cantrips each day. You can’t
prepare a cantrip in a spell slot.
A cantrip is always automatically heightened to half your
level, rounded up. For a typical spellcaster, this means its
rank is equal to the highest rank of spell slot you have.
FOCUS SPELLS
Focus spells are a special type of spell attained directly from
a specific source, such as a field of study, connection to a
mystical force, or exposure to an alternate reality. You can
learn focus spells only through special class features or feats,
rather than choosing them from a spell list. Furthermore, you
cast focus spells using a special pool of Focus Points—you can’t
prepare a focus spell in a spell slot or use your spell slots to
cast focus spells; similarly, you can’t spend your Focus Points
to cast spells that aren’t focus spells. Even some classes that
don’t normally grant spellcasting can grant focus spells. The
title of a focus spell’s stat block says “Focus” instead of “Spell”,
and the spell has the focus trait.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your level
rounded up, just like cantrips are. You can’t cast a focus spell
if its minimum rank is greater than half your level rounded
up, even if you somehow gain access to it.
Casting any of your focus spells costs you 1 Focus Point.
You automatically gain a focus pool the first time you gain an
ability that gives you a focus spell. The maximum number of
points in your pool is equal to the number of focus spells you
know or 3, whichever is lower. This counts only spells that
require Focus Points to cast.
You replenish all the Focus Points in your pool during your
daily preparations. You can also use the Refocus activity to
pray, study, meditate, or otherwise reattune yourself to the
source of your focus magic and regain 1 Focus Point. You can
Refocus multiple times to regain multiple points, up to your
pool’s maximum.
REFOCUS
CONCENTRATE EXPLORATION
Requirements You have a focus pool.
You spend 10 minutes performing deeds to restore your
magical connection. This restores 1 Focus Point to your focus
pool. The deeds you need to perform are specified in the class
or ability that gives you your focus spells. These deeds can
usually overlap with other tasks that relate to the source
of your focus spells. For instance, a witchwarper with focus
points from their paradox can usually Refocus while using
their paradox skill.
SPELLCASTERS WITH FOCUS
SPELLS
If you are a spellcaster, your focus spells are the same tradition
of spell as the class that gave you the focus spell. A mystic’s
296
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
are determined by their connection, and a witchwarper’s are
determined by their paradox.
NON-SPELLCASTERS WITH
FOCUS SPELLS
If you get focus spells from a class or other source that
doesn’t grant spellcasting ability, the ability that gives you
focus spells also provides your proficiency for your spell
attack modifier and spell DC, as well as the magical tradition
of your focus spells. Though you can cast your focus spells,
you don’t qualify for feats and other rules that require you
to be a spellcaster or have a spellcasting class feature—those
require you to have spell slots.
FOCUS POINTS FROM MULTIPLE
SOURCES
It’s possible, especially through archetypes, to gain focus
spells from more than one source. If this happens, you
have just one focus pool, counting all your focus spells to
determine the points in your pool. You can spend any of your
Focus Points on any of your focus spells. Likewise, when
you Refocus, you get back a point as long as you follow the
guidelines of any abilities that granted you focus spells.
Having Focus Points from multiple sources doesn’t change
the tradition of your spells; if you had both healing epiphany
spells and precog warp spells, your mystic spells would
remain divine and the witchwarper spells occult. Similarly,
you need to use the attribute modifier determined by the
source of the focus spell.
INNATE SPELLS
Certain spells are natural to your character, typically coming
from your ancestry or a magic item. They’re called innate
spells. Innate spells don’t let you qualify for abilities that
require you to be a spellcaster—those require you to have
spell slots. The ability that gives you an innate spell tells
you how often you can cast it—usually once per day—and
its magical tradition. Innate spells are refreshed during
your daily preparations. Innate cantrips are cast at will and
automatically heightened as normal for cantrips (page 298)
unless otherwise specified.
When you gain an innate spell, you become trained in
the spell attack modifier and spell DC statistics. At 12th
level, these proficiencies increase to expert. Unless noted
otherwise, Charisma is your spellcasting attribute modifier
for innate spells.
If you have an innate spell, you can cast it even if it’s not of
a spell rank you can normally cast. This is especially common
for monsters.
Arcane
Arcane spellcasters use logic and
rationality to categorize the magic inherent
in the world around them. Because of its far-reaching
approach, the arcane tradition has the broadest spell
list, though it’s generally poor at affecting the spirit or
the soul. Witchwarpers who analyze probability and
spellcasters who draw magic from the underlying code
of the Universe are practitioners of arcane magic.
Divine
The power of the divine is steeped in faith,
the unseen, and belief in a power source from
beyond the Universe. Mystics connected with the cosmic
forces of healing and shadows are divine spellcasters.
MAGICAL TRADITIONS
Spellcasters cast spells from one of four different spell lists, each representing a different magical tradition: arcane,
divine, occult, and primal.
Your class determines which tradition of magic your spells use. In some cases, such as when a mystic gains spells from
their connection or when a witchwarper learns spells from their paradox, you might be able to cast one or more select
spells from a different spell list than the list you normally cast from; for instance, mystics with the elemental connection
can conjure a spiritual guardian, perhaps in the form of a nature deity’s attendant or servitor. In these cases, the spell
uses your magic tradition, not the list the spell normally comes from. When you cast a spell, add your tradition’s trait to
the spell.
Some types of magic, such as that of most magic items, don’t belong to any single tradition. These have the magical
trait instead of a tradition trait.
Occult
The practitioners of occult traditions seek
to understand the unexplainable, categorize
the bizarre, and otherwise access the ephemeral in a
systematic way. Witchwarpers touched by the Gap or
alternate timelines, as well as mystics who are psychically
linked to the Akashic Record, are occult spellcasters.
Primal
An instinctual connection to and faith in the
world, the cycle of day and night, the turning
of the seasons, and the natural selection of predator and
prey drive the primal tradition. Mystics connected to
the primordial elements and underlying rhythms of the
cosmos are primal spellcasters.
297
You can’t use your spell slots to cast your innate spells, but
you might have an innate spell and also be able to prepare
or cast the same spell through your class. You also can’t
heighten innate spells, but some abilities that grant innate
spells might give you the spell at a higher rank than its base
rank or change the rank at which you cast the spell.
CASTING SPELLS
The casting of a spell can range from a simple word of magical
might that creates a fleeting effect to a complex process
taking hours to cast and producing a long-term impact.
Casting a spell requires the caster to make gestures and utter
incantations, so being unable to speak prevents spellcasting
for most casters. If your character has a long-term disability
that prevents or complicates them from speaking (as
described in GM Core), work with the GM to determine an
analogous way they cast their spells, such as tapping in code
on their comm unit or whistling.
Spellcasting creates obvious sensory manifestations, such
as bright lights, crackling sounds, and sharp smells from the
gathering magic. Nearly all spells manifest a spell signature—a
colorful, glowing ring of magical runes or circuitry that
appears in midair, typically around your hands, though what
kind of spellcaster you are can affect this—witchwarpers’
signatures often look like ripples or winkles in reality,
and a mystic’s might be inspired by their connection. How
spellcasting looks can vary from one spellcasting tradition or
class to another, or even from person to person. You have
a great deal of freedom in flavoring your character’s magic
however you wish!
Spells can vary in how many actions they take, as shown in
the spell’s stat block. You cast cantrips, spells from spell slots,
and focus spells using the same process, but must expend the
spell when casting a spell from a spell slot and must spend 1
Focus Point to cast a focus spell. Some rules will refer to the
Cast a Spell activity, such as “if the next action you use is to
Cast a Spell.” Any spell qualifies as a Cast a Spell activity, and
any characteristics of the spell use those of the specific spell
you’re casting.
COSTS AND LOCI
Some spells require you to pay a cost or provide a locus. If the
spell lists a cost, you must have the listed money, valuable
materials, or other resources to cast the spell (such as gems or
magical reagents), and they’re expended during the casting.
A locus is an object that funnels or directs the magical
energy of the spell but is not consumed in its casting. As part
of Casting the Spell, you retrieve the locus (if necessary, and
if you have a free hand), and you can put it away again if you
so choose. Loci tend to be expensive, and you need to acquire
them in advance to cast the spell, but they aren’t expended like
costs are. Unless noted otherwise, a locus has negligible Bulk.
LONG CASTING TIMES
Some spells take minutes or hours to cast. You can’t use
other actions or reactions while casting such a spell,
though at the GM’s discretion, you might be able to speak
a few sentences. As with other activities that take a long
time, these spells have the exploration trait, and you can’t
cast them in an encounter. If combat breaks out while
you’re casting one, your spell is disrupted (see Disrupted
and Lost Spells below).
DISRUPTED AND LOST SPELLS
Some abilities and spells can disrupt a spell, causing it to
have no effect and be lost. When you lose a spell, you’ve
already expended the spell slot and spent the spell’s costs
and actions. If a spell is disrupted during a Sustain action, the
spell immediately ends. The full rules for disrupting actions
appear on page 407.
RANGES, AREAS, AND
TARGETS
Spells with a range can affect targets, create areas, or make
things appear only within that range. Most spell ranges are
measured in feet, though some can stretch over miles, reach
anywhere on the planet, or go even farther!
TOUCH RANGE
A spell with a touch range requires you to physically touch
the target. You use your unarmed reach to determine
whether you can touch the creature. You can usually touch
them automatically, though the spell might specify that they
can attempt a saving throw or that you must attempt a spell
attack roll. If an ability increases the range of a touch spell,
start at 0 feet and increase from there.
AREAS
Sometimes a spell has an area, which can be a burst, cone,
emanation, or line (pages 420–421). If the spell originates
from your position, the spell has only an area; if you can
cause the spell’s area to appear farther away from you, the
spell has both a range and an area.
TARGETS
Some spells allow you to target a creature, an object, or
something more specific. The target must be within the
spell’s range, and you must be able to see it (or otherwise
perceive it with a precise sense) to target it. At the GM’s
discretion, you can attempt to target a creature you can’t
see, as described in Detecting Creatures on page 425. If
you fail to target a particular creature, this doesn’t change
how the spell affects any other targets the spell has.
If you choose a target that isn’t valid, such as if you
thought a driftdead was a living creature and targeted it
with a spell that can target only living creatures, your spell
fails to target that creature. If a creature starts out as a
valid target but ceases to be one during a spell’s duration,
the spell typically ends, but the GM might decide otherwise
in certain situations. Some spells restrict you to willing
targets. A player can declare their character a willing or
unwilling target at any time, regardless of turn order or
298
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
OTHER SPELL TRAITS
Below is a glossary of a few traits you might see with important rules.
Darkness and Light
Non-magical light always shines in non-magical darkness
and always fails to shine in magical darkness. Magical light
always shines in non-magical darkness but shines in magical
darkness only if the light spell has a higher rank than that
of the darkness effect. Spells with the darkness trait or the
light trait can always counteract one another, but bringing
light and darkness into contact doesn’t automatically do
so. You must usually cast a light spell on a darkness effect
directly to counteract it (and vice versa), but some spells
automatically attempt to counteract opposing effects.
Minion
Minions are creatures that directly serve another creature.
Your minion acts on your turn in combat, once per turn, when
you spend an action to issue it commands. For a companion,
you Command it; for a minion that’s a spell or magic item
effect, like a summoned minion, you Sustain the effect (page
411); if not otherwise specified, you issue a verbal command
as a single action with the auditory and concentrate traits. If
given no commands, minions use no actions except to defend
themselves or to escape obvious harm. If left unattended for
long enough, typically 1 minute, mindless minions usually
don’t act, animals follow their instincts, and sapient minions
act how they please. You can have a maximum of four
minions under your control.
A minion has only 2 actions and 0 reactions per turn,
though certain conditions (such as slowed or quickened)
or abilities might give them additional actions or a reaction.
Alterations to a minion’s actions occur when they gain their
actions for the round. A minion can’t control other creatures.
Summoned
A creature called by a spell or effect gains the summoned
trait. A summoned creature can’t summon other creatures,
create things of value, or cast spells that require a cost. It
has the minion trait. If it tries to cast a spell of equal or
higher rank than the spell that summoned it, it overpowers
the summoning magic, causing its own spell to fail and the
summon spell to end. Otherwise, the summoned creature
uses the standard abilities for a creature of its kind. It
generally attacks your enemies to the best of its ability. If
you can communicate with it, you can attempt to command
it, but the GM determines the degree to which it follows
your commands.
Immediately when you finish casting, the summoned
creature uses its 2 actions for that turn. A spawn or other
creature generated from a summoned creature returns to
its unaltered state once the summoned creature is gone.
If it’s unclear what this state would be, the GM decides.
Summoned creatures can be banished by various spells
and effects. They are automatically banished if reduced to
0 Hit Points or if the spell that called them ends.
Morph
Spells that slightly alter a creature’s form have the morph trait.
Any Strikes specifically granted by a magical morph effect also
gain the magical trait. You can be affected by multiple morph
spells at once, but if you morph the same body part more
than once, the second morph effect attempts to counteract
the first (in the same manner as two polymorph effects,
described below). Your morph effects might also end if you are
polymorphed and the polymorph effect invalidates or overrides
your morph effect. For instance, a morph that gave you wings
would be dismissed if you polymorphed into a form that had
wings of its own (though if your new form lacked wings, you’d
keep the wings from your morph). The GM determines which
morph effects can be used together and which can’t.
Polymorph
These effects completely transform the target into a new
form. A target can’t be under the effect of more than
one polymorph at a time. If it comes under the effect of
another, the second effect attempts to counteract the first.
If it succeeds, it takes effect, and if it fails, the spell has no
effect on that target. Any Strikes granted by a polymorph
effect are magical. Unless otherwise stated, polymorph
spells don’t allow the target to take on the appearance
of a specific individual creature, but rather just a generic
creature of a general type or ancestry.
If you take on a battle form with a polymorph spell, the
special statistics can be adjusted only by circumstance
bonuses, status bonuses, and penalties. Unless otherwise
noted, the battle form prevents you from casting spells,
speaking, and using most manipulate actions that require
hands. (If there’s doubt about whether you can use an action,
the GM decides.) Your gear is absorbed into you; the constant
abilities of your gear still function, but you can’t activate any
items. If a polymorph effect causes you to increase in size,
you must have space to expand into or the effect is disrupted.
Illusions
Magic with the illusion trait creates false sensory stimuli.
Sometimes illusions allow creatures a chance to disbelieve
the spell, which lets the creature ignore the spell if it succeeds
at doing so. This usually happens when a creature Seeks,
Interacts, or otherwise spends actions to engage with the
illusion, comparing the result of its Perception check (or
another check or save the GM chooses) to the caster’s spell
DC. Mental illusions typically provide rules in the spell’s
description for disbelieving the effect (usually via a Will save).
If a creature engages with an illusion in a way that would
prove it’s not what it seems, the creature might know that an
illusion is present, but it still can’t ignore the illusion without
successfully disbelieving it. Disbelieving a visual illusion makes
it and those things it blocks seem hazy and indistinct, which
might block vision enough to leave the other side concealed.
299
their character’s condition (such as when a character is
paralyzed, unconscious, or even dead).
Spells that affect multiple creatures in an area can have
both an Area entry and a Targets entry. A spell that has an
area but no targets listed usually affects all creatures in the
area indiscriminately.
LINE OF EFFECT
You usually need an unobstructed path to the target of
a spell, the origin point of an area, or the place where you
create something with a spell. More information on line of
effect can be found on page 418.
DURATIONS
The duration of a spell is how long the spell effect lasts. Spells
that last for more than an instant have a Duration entry. A
spell might last until the start or end of a turn, for some
number of rounds, for minutes, or even longer. If a spell’s
duration is given in rounds, the number of rounds remaining
decreases by 1 at the start of each of the spellcaster’s turns,
ending when the duration reaches 0.
Some spells have effects that remain even after the spell’s
magic is gone. Any ongoing effect that isn’t part of the spell’s
duration entry isn’t magical. For instance, a spell such as
sunburst that creates a brief, intensely bright flash of light
might blind someone for a time, even permanently. This
blindness couldn’t be counteracted because it is not itself
magical (though it might be cured by other magic, such as
sound body).
If a spell’s caster dies or is incapacitated during the spell’s
duration, the spell remains in effect until its duration ends,
using the caster’s initiative order.
SUSTAINING SPELLS
If the spell’s duration is “sustained,” it lasts until the end of
your next turn unless you use the Sustain action (page 411)
on that turn to extend the duration of that spell.
LONG DURATIONS
If a spell’s duration says it lasts until your next daily
preparations, on the next day you can refrain from preparing
a new spell in that spell’s slot. (If you are a spontaneous caster,
you can instead expend a spell slot during your preparations.)
Doing so extends the spell’s duration until your next daily
preparations. This effectively Sustains the spell over a long
period of time. If you prepare a new spell in the slot (or don’t
expend a spell slot), the spell ends. You can’t do this if the
spell didn’t come from one of your spell slots. If you are dead
or otherwise incapacitated at the 24-hour mark after the time
you Cast the Spell or the last time you extended its duration,
the spell ends. Spells with an unlimited duration last until
counteracted or Dismissed. You don’t need to keep a spell slot
open for these spells.
DISMISSING
Some spells can be dismissed, ending the duration early.
This requires the caster or target to use the Dismiss action
(page 411).
DEFENSES
If a spell allows the target to attempt a saving throw or use
their AC to defend against it, the type of defense is listed in the
stat block. Any details on the particular results and timing of
the save appear in the text unless the entry specifies a basic
saving throw, which follows a standard rule. If a spell allows
a defense only under certain circumstances or at a certain
time, the Defenses entry is omitted, since the text needs to
explain it in more detail. Whenever a spell allows a saving
throw, it uses the caster’s spell DC, and one that allows AC as
a defense typically requires a spell attack. More information
on how to calculate your spell DC and spell attack modifier
appears starting on page 394.
BASIC SAVING THROWS
If a spell’s Defenses entry specifies a “basic” saving throw, the
spell’s potential effects all relate to the damage listed in the
spell’s description. The target takes no damage on a critical
success, half damage on a success, full damage on a failure,
or double damage on a critical failure. The rules for basic
saving throws are found on page 396.
SPELL ATTACKS
Some spells require you to succeed at a spell attack roll to
affect the target. This is usually because they require you to
SUBTLE SPELLS
A spell with the subtle trait can be cast
without incantations and doesn’t have obvious
manifestations. Most of these spells enhance your
subterfuge or stealth, such as invisibility. Some
abilities, like the Conceal Spell feat (page 122), allow
you to make spells subtle even if they wouldn’t
normally be.
SPELLSHAPE
Many spellcasters can gain access to spellshape
actions, typically by selecting spellshape feats.
Spellshape actions tweak the properties of your
spells. You must use a spellshape action directly
before casting the spell you want to alter. If you
use any action (including free actions and reactions)
other than casting a spell directly after, you waste
the benefits of the spellshape action. The benefit is
also lost if your turn ends before you cast the spell.
Any additional effects added by a spellshape action
are part of the spell’s effect, not of the spellshape
action itself.
300
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
precisely aim a ray or otherwise make an accurate attack. A
spell attack roll is compared to the target’s AC. Spell attack
rolls benefit from any bonuses or penalties to attack rolls,
including your multiple attack penalty, but not any special
benefits or penalties that apply only to weapon or unarmed
attacks. Spell attacks don’t deal any damage beyond what’s
listed in the spell description.
In rare cases, a spell might have you make some other
type of attack, such as a weapon Strike. Such attacks use the
normal rules and attack bonus for that type of attack.
IDENTIFYING SPELLS
Sometimes you need to identify a spell, especially if its
effects aren’t obvious right away. If you notice a spell
being cast, and you have that spell in your repertoire
or prepared it that day (even if you already cast it), you
automatically know what the spell is, including the rank to
which it is heightened.
If you want to identify a spell but don’t have it prepared
or in your repertoire, you must spend an action on your
turn attempting to identify it using Recall Knowledge. You
typically notice a spell being cast due to its sensory spell
manifestations (page 298). Identifying long-lasting spells
that are already in place requires using Identify Magic
instead of Recall Knowledge because you don’t have the
advantage of watching the spell being cast.
COUNTERACTING
Some spells, such as dispel magic, can be used to eliminate
the effects of other spells. At least one creature, object, or
manifestation of the spell you are trying to counteract must
be within range of the spell that you are using. You attempt
a counteract check (page 423) using your Charisma (or other
spellcasting attribute modifier) and your proficiency bonus
for spell attack rolls.
HOSTILE ACTIONS
Sometimes spells prevent a target from using hostile
actions, or the spell ends if a creature uses any hostile
actions. A hostile action is one that can harm or damage
another creature, whether directly or indirectly, but not one
that a creature is unaware could cause harm. For instance,
casting sonic scream into a crowd would be a hostile action,
but opening a door and accidentally freeing a horrible
monster wouldn’t be. The GM is the final arbitrator of what
is a hostile action.
SETTING TRIGGERS
If a spell is meant to respond only to certain events or under
certain conditions, it might require you to set a trigger. This
is a simple sensory cue that causes the spell to activate. The
spell activates as a reaction when the spell’s sensor observes
something that fits its trigger. Depending on the spell, the trigger
might be the presence of a type of creature, such as “creatures
with six or more tentacles,” or it could be an observed action,
such as “whenever someone enters the spell’s area.”
Disguises and illusions fool the spell as long as they
appear to match its parameters. For a spell to detect
something visually, the spell’s origin point must have line of
sight. Darkness doesn’t prevent this, but invisibility does, as
does a successful Stealth check to Hide (against the spell’s
DC). For auditory detection, line of sight isn’t necessary,
though the sound must be audible at the spell’s origin point.
A Stealth check to Sneak can fool the sensor.
WALLS
Spells that create walls, such as wall of plasma, list the
depth, length, and height of the wall, also specifying how
it can be positioned. Some walls can be shaped; you can
manipulate the wall into a form other than a straight line,
choosing its contiguous path square by square. The path
of a shaped wall can’t enter the same space more than
once, but it can double back so one section is adjacent to
another section of the wall.
READING SPELLS
Each spell uses the following format. Entries appear only
when applicable, so not all spells will have every entry
described here. The spell’s name line also lists the type
of spell if it’s a cantrip or focus spell, as well as the rank.
SPELL NAME [one-action] SPELL (RANK)
TRAITS
Tradition This entry lists the magical traditions the spell
belongs to. Some feats or other abilities might add a
spell to your spell list even if you don’t follow the listed
traditions.
Cast Spells that take longer than a single turn to cast include
this entry to list the time required, such as “1 minute.” If
the spell has a cost, locus, requirements, or a trigger, that
information is also listed in this section.
Range, Area, and Targets This entry lists the range of the
spell, the area it affects, and the targets it can affect, if
any. If none of these entries are present, the spell affects
only the caster.
Defense and Duration If a spell allows the target to attempt
a saving throw or use their AC to defend against it, the
type of defense appears here (see page 300 for details).
A Duration entry appears if the spell has one. A spell that
doesn’t list a duration takes place instantaneously, and
anything created by it persists after the spell.
A horizontal line follows defense and duration, and the
effects of the spell are described after this line. This section
might also detail the possible results of a saving throw:
critical success, success, failure, and critical failure.
Heightened (rank) If the spell has special effects when
heightened (page 295), those effects appear at the end
of the stat block.
301
ARCANE SPELLS
ARCANE CANTRIPS
Adhere Bond two objects together or charge a surface with
adhesive magic.
Analyze Target H Gather data about a target’s basic physiology.
Caustic Blast H Fling a glob of acid that splashes a small area.
Daze H Cloud a creature’s mind and possibly stun it.
Detect Magic H Sense whether magic is nearby.
Electric Arc H Zap one or two creatures with lightning.
Figment Create a simple auditory or visual illusion.
Frostbite H Damage a creature with bitter cold.
Gouging Claw H Morph your limb into a claw and attack with it.
Ignition H Burn a creature up close or at range.
Implant Data H Implant data into a digital device so others
can find it.
Injury Echo H Deal physical damage, and if a creature later
takes that same damage, it begins to bleed.
Light H Make an object glow.
Measure H You get measurements of creatures you can
observe in the area.
Message H Speak a message to a distant creature, who can reply.
Prestidigitation Perform a minor magical trick.
Read Aura H Detect if an object is magical.
Recharge Weapon H Create temporary low-cost ammo to fire
your weapon with.
Ricochet H Send out a spinning disk that leaps from one target
to another.
Shield H A shield of magical force blocks attacks and spells.
Sigil H Leave a magical mark.
Stumble H A burst of microgravity causes the target to stumble.
Summon Instrument H Call an instrument that only you can play.
Tangle Vine H Conjure a vine to entangle a creature.
Telekinetic Hand H Move an object with a floating hand.
Telekinetic Projectile H Fling an object at a creature.
Void Warp H Damage and weaken the living with void energy.
ARCANE 1ST-RANK SPELLS
Air Bubble React to create air for a creature to breathe.
Alarm H Be alerted if a creature enters a warded area.
Ant Haul Target can carry more.
Breathe Fire H Release a small cone of flame from your mouth.
Cellular Stimulant H Stimulate the target’s body for a short
while at the expense of future energy.
Charm H A creature becomes more friendly to you.
SPELL LISTS
These lists include the spells for each tradition, including cantrips. (Focus spells appear on pages 375–380.)
A superscript “H” indicates a spell has extra effects when heightened, and a spell whose rarity is greater
than common has a superscript with the first letter of that rarity (for example, “U” for uncommon).
Command H Bid a creature approach, run, drop something, lie
prone, or stand up.
Create Water Conjure 2 gallons of water.
Delete H Delete data from a dataset.
Disguise Magic H Mask the aura of a spell or item.
Dizzying Colors Swirling colors blind, dazzle, or stun creatures.
Enfeeble Sap a creature’s strength.
Enhance Body H Infuse a creature’s body with magic power.
Enhance Weapon H Infuse a weapon with magic power.
Fear H Frighten a creature, possibly making it flee.
Fleet Step Make your Speed much faster.
Force Barrage H Pelt creatures with unerring shards of
magical force.
Gentle Landing React to save a falling creature.
Glow Up H You make a target more charming to observers.
Grease Cover a target or an area with slippery grease.
Grim Tendrils H Creatures in a line take void damage and bleed.
Gust of Wind Wind blows out fires and knocks back objects
and creatures.
Hydraulic Push H Damage and push a creature with a blast
of water.
Illusory Disguise H Make yourself look like a different creature.
Illusory Object H Form a convincing illusion of an object.
Jump H Make an impressive leap.
Lock H Make a lock much harder to open.
Mending H Repair one non-magical item.
Mindlink Mentally impart 10 minutes worth of information
in an instant.
Mystic Armor H Ward yourself with magical armor.
Overheat H Heat up a creature and its held objects.
Pest Form H Turn into a nonthreatening animal.
Phantasmal Minion Create a creature of force to perform
minor tasks.
Pummeling Rubble H Hurl a cone of rocks to batter creatures.
Shifting Surge H Change weapon to a different energy type
and deal bonus damage of the original type.
Sleep H Put creatures in a small area to sleep.
Sonic Scream H Let loose a scream that affects creatures in
a cone.
Summon Animal H Conjure an animal to fight for you.
Summon Construct H Conjure a construct to fight on your behalf.
Summon Robot H Summon a robot to fight for you.
Summon Undead H Conjure an undead to fight on your behalf.
Supercharge Weapon H Increase the damage done by the next
attack of a weapon.
302
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Sure Strike Your next attack is especially accurate.
Tailwind H Increase your speed for an hour.
Thunderstrike H Call down a thunderbolt.
ARCANE 2ND-RANK SPELLS
Acid Grip H Move and harm foes with a hand of acid.
Blazing Bolt H Fire one to three flaming bolts at different foes.
Blur Target’s form becomes blurry and hard to hit.
Caustic Conversion H Send nanites to dissolve your target.
Create Food H Feed multiple creatures with conjured food.
Darkness H Suppress all light in an area.
Darkvision H See in the dark.
Deafness Make a creature deaf.
Dispel Magic End a spell or suppress an item’s magic.
Doom Scroll Broadcast grim news that forces others to pay
attention.
Embed Message H Leave an illusory message to be triggered
at a later date.
Enlarge H Cause a creature to grow in size.
Entangling Flora Sprout plants to hinder movement in an area.
Environmental Endurance H Protect a creature from severe
cold or heat.
Everlight Cause a gem to glow eternally.
False Vitality H Gain temporary Hit Points.
Floating Flame H Summoned fire moves at your command.
Ghostly Carrier Create a semicorporeal figure that carries
your touch spells to targets.
Humanoid Form H Take the shape of a humanoid.
Illusory Creature H Form a convincing illusion of a creature.
Inject Nanobots H Inject nanobots into the body of a foe that
begin to consume it.
Instant Virus Implant a virus into the target that can cause
it to glitch.
Invisibility H A creature can’t be seen until it attacks.
Knock Make a door, lock, or container easier to open, and
possibly open it immediately.
Laughing Fit Laughter impedes a creature’s actions.
Logic Bomb H Plant a mental bomb in a tech item that affects
a user when they next attempt to use the item.
Mist Conceal creatures with a cloud of mist.
Noise Blast H Damage and deafen creatures with a powerful din.
Oaken Resilience H Confer a tree’s resilience and flammability.
Peaceful Rest H A corpse doesn’t decay and can’t become undead.
Resist Energy H Protect a creature from one type of energy
damage.
Revealing Light Dazzling light counters invisibility and
concealment.
See the Unseen H Reveal invisible creatures to your sight.
Shape Wood Transform unworked wood into a shape of your
choice.
Shrink H Reduce a willing creature to Tiny size.
Skim Data Touch an object to get the gist of the data in it.
Stupefy Dull a target’s mind and make spell casting unreliable.
Summon Elemental H Conjure an elemental to fight on your
behalf.
Telekinetic Maneuver Disarm, Reposition, Shove, or Trip a
creature telekinetically.
Translate H Grant understanding of a language to one
creature.
Verdant Code Cause plant matter to sprout from a computer
and impede the area around it.
Water Breathing H Allow creatures to breathe underwater.
Water Walk H Buoy a creature so it can walk on water.
ARCANE 3RD-RANK SPELLS
Bind Undead Take control of a mindless undead.
Blindness Strike a target blind.
Clairaudience Hear through an invisible magical sensor.
Cozy Crashpad Conjure a temporary cabin sheltered from the
elements.
Discharge Depower a tech creature or equipment.
Earthbind Bring a flying creature to the ground.
Electrotether H Manipulate electromagnetic forces on a
target, pulling them closer and dealing electricity damage.
Enthrall Your speech makes creatures fascinated with you.
Entropy Strike H Shoot a ray that decays matter.
Fireball H An explosion of fire in an area burns creatures.
Ghost Killer Weapon Make a weapon affect incorporeal
creatures.
Haste H Speed up a creature so it can attack or move more often.
Hypnotize Shifting colors dazzle and fascinate creatures.
Insect Form H Turn into a dangerous giant insect.
Irradiate H Create a burst of magically enhanced radiation.
Levitate Float an object or creature a few feet off the ground.
Lightning Bolt H Lightning strikes all creatures in a line.
Locate H, U Learn the direction to an object.
Mind Reading U Read a creature’s surface thoughts.
One with Stone Meld into or turn into a stone.
Paralyze H Freeze a creature in place.
Personal Gravity Alter gravity’s effects on you.
Selective Invisibility H The target becomes invisible to almost
everyone.
Skyfire Wings H Your arms become fiery wings.
Slow H Make a creature slower, reducing its actions.
Vampiric Feast H Deal void damage and gain temporary Hit
Points with a touch.
Veil of Privacy U Protect a creature or object from magical
detection.
Wall of Thorns H Grow a wall of brambles.
Wall of Wind Create a wall of gusting winds that hinders
movement and ranged attacks.
ARCANE 4TH-RANK SPELLS
Aerial Form H Turn into a flying combatant.
Cairn Form H Rocky skin enhances the target’s offensive and
defensive capabilities.
Clairvoyance See through an invisible magical sensor.
Confusion H Befuddle a creature, making it act randomly.
Creation H Make a temporary object.
Detect Scrying H, U Find out whether scrying effects are in the
area.
Dispelling Globe U Counteract magic that enters this sphere.
Fire Shield H Flames protect you from cold and harm those
that touch you.
303
Flicker H Protect yourself from most damage as you teleport
erratically.
Fly H Grant a target a fly Speed.
Mountain Resilience H Harden a creature to resist physical
attacks.
Nightmare Plague a creature’s dreams with disturbing
nightmares.
Outcast’s Curse Curse a creature to be off-putting and abrasive.
Peaceful Bubble U Opaque bubble prevents detection, dreams,
perception, and scrying.
Planar Tether Keep a creature on its current plane.
Shape Stone Reshape a cube of stone.
Speak with Computers H Talk to a computer.
Suggestion H Suggest a course of action a creature must follow.
Telepathy H Communicate telepathically with any creatures
near you.
Translocate H Teleport a moderate distance.
Unfettered Movement Repel effects that would hold a creature
in place.
Vapor Form Transform your body into vapor.
Vision of Death H Show the target a vision of their own death,
causing fear and mental damage.
Wall of Fire H Create a blazing wall that burns creatures that
pass through.
ARCANE 5TH-RANK SPELLS
Banishment H Send a creature back to its home plane.
Control Machine H, U Temporarily take control of a machine.
Elemental Form H Turn into an elemental.
False Vision U Trick a scrying spell.
Hallucination H Cause a creature to believe one thing is
another, to notice something that isn’t there, or to be
unable to detect something.
Howling Blizzard H Fill a cone or burst with cold winds and
snowdrifts.
Illusory Scene H Create an imaginary scene containing
multiple creatures and objects.
Impaling Spike H Skewer a creature with a cold iron spike.
Magic Passage H, U Open a temporary passage through a surface.
Mind Probe U Uncover knowledge and memories in a
creature’s mind.
Overload Systems H Unleash a blast of electricity that shorts
out tech equipment.
Scouting Eye Invisible eye transmits what it sees to you.
Sending Send a message to a creature anywhere on the
planet and get a reply.
Subconscious Suggestion H Plant a suggestion in a creature’s
mind that it must follow when a trigger occurs.
Summon Dragon H Conjure a dragon to fight on your behalf.
Telekinetic Haul Move a large object.
Toxic Cloud H A bank of poison fog rolls away from you.
Truespeech H, U Let a creature understand and speak all
languages.
Wall of Ice H Sculpt a foot-thick wall of ice that blocks sight
and can chill creatures.
Wall of Stone H Shape a wall of stone.
Wave of Despair H Drive creatures in an area to despair.
ARCANE 6TH-RANK SPELLS
Chain Lightning H An arc of lightning jumps from creature to
creature.
Corrosive Haze H Create a cloud of corrosive nanites.
Cursed Metamorphosis Transform the target into a harmless
animal.
Disintegrate H Reduce a creature or object to dust.
Dominate H, U A creature must obey your orders.
Dragon Form H Turn into a dragon.
Mislead Turn invisible and create a duplicate of yourself who
acts like you.
Never Mind Stupefy a creature permanently.
Petrify Turn a creature into a stone statue.
Phantasmal Calamity H Create visions of an apocalypse to
damage creatures mentally.
Pocket Vacuum H Create a sudden vacuum in an atmosphere,
damaging creatures with decompression.
Promession H Flash freeze a target and then render them to
dust with sonic vibrations.
Repulsion Prevent creatures from approaching you.
Rocket Dash H Turn into a flaming rocket and rush forward,
damaging everyone in your path.
Scrying U Spy on a creature you choose.
Slice Reality H Create a chasm of slicing entropy that attacks
creatures nearby.
Teleport H, U Transport you and willing creatures a great distance.
Truesight See through illusions and physical transformations.
Vampiric Exsanguination H Draw blood and life force from
creatures in a cone, harming them and healing yourself.
Vibrant Pattern Make a pattern of lights that dazzles and
blinds creatures who enters the area.
Wall of Force H Create an invisible and durable plane of
magical force.
Wall of Plasma H Create a wall of damaging plasma energy.
X-Ray Vision U See through most solid materials.
ARCANE 7TH-RANK SPELLS
Absolute Zero H Flash freeze and slow creatures.
Contingency H Set up a spell to trigger later under your choice
of circumstances.
Eclipse Burst H Explode a globe of darkness that deals cold
damage, hurts the living, and overcomes light.
Energy Aegis H A creature gains resistance to acid, cold,
electricity, fire, force, sonic, vitality, and void damage.
Interplanar Teleport U Transport creatures to another plane in
the Multiverse.
Mask of Terror H Create a fearsome illusory appearance
frightens observers.
Planar Palace U Conjure a secure dwelling in a demiplane.
Planar Seal U Raise a barrier against teleportation and
summoning.
Project Image H Make an illusion of yourself you can cast
spells through.
Retrocognition H Sense impressions of past events at your
location.
True Target Make multiple attacks against a creature
especially accurate.
304
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Wall of Steel H Create a wall of solid steel.
Warp Mind Confuse a creature, possibly permanently.
ARCANE 8TH-RANK SPELLS
Arctic Rift H Bitter cold damages and freezes a creature.
Desiccate H Pull moisture from creatures, damaging them.
Disappearance Make a creature invisible, silent, and
undetectable by special senses.
Earthquake H Shake the ground with a devastating earthquake.
Gravity Field Create a field of increased gravity in an area as
you desire.
Monstrosity Form H Turn into a powerful monster.
Phantasmal Fleet Create an illusory fleet of ships that causes
creatures to duck for cover.
Pinpoint U Learn the exact location of a creature or object.
Uncontrollable Dance Overcome a target with an allconsuming
urge to dance.
ARCANE 9TH-RANK SPELLS
Atomic Blast Create a nuclear explosion with fallout.
Falling Stars H Call down four pieces of the heavens to deal
bludgeoning and elemental damage.
Foresight Danger sense warns you when a creature is in
danger and protects it with good fortune.
Implosion H Make a creature collapse in on itself.
Massacre H Instantly kill multiple creatures.
Metamorphosis Fluidly change between different forms.
Phantasmagoria Frighten, deal mental damage, and possibly
kill many targets.
Telekinetic Tantrum Unleash a barrage of powerful telekinetic
energy that has a variety of effects.
ARCANE 10TH-RANK SPELLS
Cataclysm Call an instant, devastating cataclysm.
Freeze Time Briefly stop time for everything but you.
Gate U Tear open a portal to another plane.
Indestructibility Become briefly immune to everything.
Manifestation Flexibly cast a 9th-rank spell from your tradition.
New Game Draw creatures into a VR game, except this time
the game is real.
Remake U Recreate a destroyed object.
DIVINE SPELLS
DIVINE CANTRIPS
Analyze Target H Gather data about a target’s basic physiology.
Daze H Cloud a creature’s mind and possibly stun it.
Detect Magic H Sense whether magic is nearby.
Divine Lance H Throw divine energy that deals spirit damage.
Eldritch Lance H Unleash eldritch mental damage on a target.
Forbidding Ward H Protect an ally against one specific enemy.
Guidance Divine guidance improves one roll.
Light H Make an object glow.
Measure H You get measurements of creatures you can
observe in the area.
Message H Speak a message to a distant creature, who can reply.
Prestidigitation Perform a minor magical trick.
Read Aura H Detect if an object is magical.
Reorient Help a target regain their footing.
Ricochet H Send out a spinning disk that leaps from one target
to another.
Scan Environment H Scan nearby terrain and get an inherent
understanding of it.
Seek the Stars H Know the location of the Starstone or the
nearest Drift beacon.
Shield H A shield of magical force blocks attacks and spells.
Sigil H Leave a magical mark.
Stabilize Stabilize a dying creature.
Summon Instrument H Call an instrument that only you can play.
Vitality Lash H Damage and weaken the undead with vital energy.
Void Warp H Damage and weaken the living with void energy.
DIVINE 1ST-RANK SPELLS
Air Bubble React to create air for a creature to breathe.
Alarm H Be alerted if a creature enters a warded area.
Bane Weaken enemies’ attacks in an aura around you.
Bless Strengthen allies’ attacks in an aura around you.
Cleanse Cuisine H Make food and drink safe and delicious.
Command H Bid a creature approach, run, drop something, lie
prone, or stand up.
Create Water Conjure 2 gallons of water.
Detect Poison H, U Determine whether an object or creature is
poisonous or venomous.
Dream of Home Occupy a creature’s mind with memories of
its home.
Enfeeble Sap a creature’s strength.
Enhance Body H Infuse a creature’s body with magic power.
Enhance Weapon H Infuse a weapon with magic power.
Fear H Frighten a creature, possibly making it flee.
Harm H Void energy harms the living or heals the undead,
either a single creature or all in a burst.
Heal H Vital energy heals the living or harms the undead,
either a single creature or all in a burst.
Infuse Vitality H Empower attacks with vital energy to
damage the undead.
Lock H Make a lock much harder to open.
Mending H Repair one non-magical item.
Mind Skewer H Unleash mental damage on a target.
Motivating Ringtone H Cause a comm unit to ring out its
owner’s theme song.
Mystic Armor H Ward yourself with magical armor.
Protection H Raise a creature’s AC.
Sanctuary Protect a creature from being attacked.
Spirit Link H Continually transfer your health to someone else.
Summon Undead H Conjure an undead to fight on your behalf.
Wisp Ally H A wisp of floating light distracts your enemies.
DIVINE 2ND-RANK SPELLS
Augury Predict whether a course of action brings good fortune.
Calm Suppress strong emotions and hostility.
Cleanse Affliction H Treat a curse, disease, or poison.
Clear Mind H Counteract fleeing, frightened, stupefied, and
related conditions.
Create Food H Feed multiple creatures with conjured food.
305
Darkness H Suppress all light in an area.
Darkvision H See in the dark.
Deafness Make a creature deaf.
Detect Thoughts H Sense the surface thoughts of nearby
creatures.
Dispel Magic End a spell or suppress an item’s magic.
Doom Scroll Broadcast grim news that forces others to pay
attention.
Environmental Endurance H Protect a creature from severe
cold or heat.
Everlight Cause a gem to glow eternally.
Noise Blast H Damage and deafen creatures with a powerful
din.
Peaceful Rest H A corpse doesn’t decay and can’t become undead.
Resist Energy H Protect a creature from one type of energy
damage.
Revealing Light Dazzling light counters invisibility and
concealment.
See the Unseen H Reveal invisible creatures to your sight.
Share Life Absorb half the damage another would take.
Sift the Sphere H You sift through the infosphere and gain
insight about a topic.
Silence H Mute all sound from a willing creature.
Soul Surge H You channel your own life force into a spear of
energy.
Sound Body H Counteract blinded, dazzled, deafened,
enfeebled, sickened, and related conditions.
Spiritual Armament H Project a weapon imbued with spiritual
power.
Status H Keep track of a willing creature’s location and well-being.
Sure Footing H Counteract clumsy, grabbed, paralyzed, or
related conditions.
Translate H Grant understanding of a language to one creature.
Void Seed H The target is now healed by the void and hurt by
life energy.
Water Breathing H Allow creatures to breathe underwater.
Water Walk H Buoy a creature so it can walk on water.
DIVINE 3RD-RANK SPELLS
Bind Undead Take control of a mindless undead.
Blindness Strike a target blind.
Chilling Darkness H Ray of unholy darkness deals cold
damage, dispels light, and harms holy targets.
Crisis of Faith H Cause mental damage and possibly make a
worshipper unable to cast spells.
Electrotether H Manipulate electromagnetic forces on a
target, pulling them closer and dealing electricity damage.
Entropy Strike H Shoot a ray that decays matter.
Feline Senses H The target’s senses improve with feline ears,
eyes, and whiskers.
Heroism H Stoke a creature’s inner heroism to make it more
competent.
Holographic Memory U You extract a memory from the target
and replay it as a holographic vision.
Holy Light H A ray of burning light deals extra damage to
fiends and other unholy creatures.
Life Seal H Protect a creature from harmful environments.
Locate H, U Learn the direction to an object.
Share Pain H Share a sense of agonizing pain with the target,
dealing mental damage.
Skyfire Wings H Your arms become fiery wings.
Speak with Plants H Communicate with plants and plant
creatures.
Vampiric Feast H Deal void damage and gain temporary Hit
Points with a touch.
Void Whispers Eldritch voices impart secrets that lead the
target astray.
DIVINE 4TH-RANK SPELLS
Battle Sonata H Damage and deafen creatures with a dissonant
song.
Dispelling Globe U Counteract magic that enters this sphere.
Divine Wrath H Damage and hinder creatures opposing your
deity’s will.
Eldritch Wrath H Channel unspeakable powers to create a
sickening quagmire of horrors.
Explosion of Rot H A burst of deadly decay erupts in the area.
Fly H Grant the target a fly Speed.
Genetic Regeneration H The target regenerates.
Outcast’s Curse Curse a creature to be off-putting and abrasive.
Planar Tether Keep a creature on its current plane.
Read Omens U Get a piece of advice about an upcoming event.
Speak with Computers H Talk to a computer.
Talking Corpse U Have a corpse answer three questions.
Unfettered Movement Repel effects that would hold a
creature in place.
Vital Beacon H Radiate vitality that heals creatures that touch
you.
Weight of Ages H Burden a target with pain and mental
damage, weighing it down.
DIVINE 5TH-RANK SPELLS
Banishment H Send a creature back to its home plane.
Breath of Life H React to revive a character at the moment of
its death.
Divine Immolation H Call divine fire from the sky.
Scouting Eye Invisible eye transmits what it sees to you.
Sending Send a message to a creature anywhere on the
planet and get a reply.
Shadow Blast H Shape a damaging cone of shadow substance
to deal damage of a type you choose.
Speak with Stones H Communicate with natural and worked
stone.
Summon Celestial H Conjure a celestial to fight for you.
Summon Dragon H Conjure a dragon to fight on your behalf.
Summon Fiend H Conjure a fiend to fight on your behalf.
Summon Monitor H Conjure a planar monitor to fight on your
behalf.
Truespeech H, U Let a creature understand and speak all languages.
Wave of Warning H A wave of hostile intent washes over your
enemies.
DIVINE 6TH-RANK SPELLS
Dominate H, U A creature must obey your orders.
306
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Dragon Form H Turn into a dragon.
Field of Life H Create a vital energy field that heals those who
remain within.
Pocket Vacuum H Create a sudden vacuum in an atmosphere,
damaging creatures with decompression.
Raise Dead H, U Return a dead creature to life.
Repulsion Prevent creatures from approaching you.
Slice Reality H Create a chasm of slicing entropy that attacks
creatures nearby.
Spirit Blast H Damage a creature’s spiritual essence.
Telekinetic Strangulation Telekinetically strangle a target
and hold it in place.
Truesight See through illusions and physical transformations.
Vampiric Exsanguination H Draw blood and life force from
creatures in a cone, harming them and healing yourself.
X-Ray Vision U See through most solid materials.
DIVINE 7TH-RANK SPELLS
Death Sentence H Condemn the target to be rejected by reality.
Eclipse Burst H Explode a globe of darkness that deals cold
damage, hurts the living, and overcomes light.
Energy Aegis H A creature gains resistance to acid, cold,
electricity, fire, force, sonic, vitality, and void damage.
Execute H Pull a living creature toward death or an undead
creature toward destruction.
Howl You let out a vibrating howl that compels others to join
in and deals damage.
Interplanar Teleport U Transport creatures to another plane in
the Multiverse.
Planar Seal U Raise a barrier against teleportation and
summoning.
Regenerate H Creature heals over time, regrows organs, and
reattaches body parts.
Sunburst H A globe of sunlight deals fire damage, hurts
undead, and overcomes darkness.
Void Scour H You scour the life from an area in a sphere of
desolate darkness.
DIVINE 8TH-RANK SPELLS
Divine Inspiration Spiritual energy recovers a creature’s
expended spell.
Gravity Field Create a field of increased gravity in an area as
you desire.
Moment of Renewal Give a creature a day’s worth of recovery
in an instant.
Pinpoint U Learn the exact location of a creature or object.
Singularity Seed Create a dense gravitational seed that sucks
things in and deals massive void damage.
Void Vessel Survive in a vacuum and gain wings that let you
fly in space.
DIVINE 9TH-RANK SPELLS
Call Cosmos H Call down a column of cosmic matter to burn
and freeze.
Foresight Danger sense warns you when a creature is in
danger and protects it with good fortune.
Massacre H Instantly kill multiple creatures.
Wails of the Damned Scream, draining the living and causing
void damage.
DIVINE 10TH-RANK SPELLS
Avatar Transform into a battle form with benefits determined
by your deity.
Gate U Tear open a portal to another plane.
Indestructibility Become briefly immune to everything.
Manifestation Flexibly cast a 9th-rank spell from your tradition.
Remake U Recreate a destroyed object.
Revival Heal creatures in an area and return the dead to life
temporarily.
OCCULT SPELLS
OCCULT CANTRIPS
Adhere Bond two objects together or charge a surface with
adhesive magic.
Analyze Target H Gather data about a target’s basic physiology.
Daze H Cloud a creature’s mind and possibly stun it.
Detect Magic H Sense whether magic is nearby.
Eldritch Lance H Unleash eldritch mental damage on a target.
Figment Create a simple auditory or visual illusion.
Forbidding Ward H Protect an ally against one specific enemy.
Guidance Divine guidance improves one roll.
Implant Data H Implant data into a digital device so others
can find it.
Injury Echo H Deal physical damage, and if a creature later
takes that same damage, it begins to bleed.
Light H Make an object glow.
Measure H You get measurements of creatures you can
observe in the area.
Message H Speak a message to a distant creature, who can reply.
Prestidigitation Perform a minor magical trick.
Read Aura H Detect if an object is magical.
Recharge Weapon H Create temporary low-cost ammo to fire
your weapon with.
Seek the Stars H Know the location of the Starstone or the
nearest Drift beacon.
Shield H A shield of magical force blocks attacks and spells.
Sigil H Leave a magical mark.
Summon Instrument H Call an instrument that only you can play.
Telekinetic Hand H Move an object with a floating hand.
Telekinetic Projectile H Fling an object at a creature.
Void Warp H Damage and weaken the living with void energy.
OCCULT 1ST-RANK SPELLS
Akashic Download H Consult the Akashic Record for info on
a topic.
Alarm H Be alerted if a creature enters a warded area.
Bane Weaken enemies’ attacks in an aura around you.
Bless Strengthen allies’ attacks in an aura around you.
Charm H A creature becomes more friendly to you.
Command H Bid a creature approach, run, drop something, lie
prone, or stand up.
Delete H Delete data from a dataset.
Disguise Magic H Mask the aura of a spell or item.
307
Dizzying Colors Swirling colors blind, dazzle, or stun creatures.
Dream of Home Occupy a creature’s mind with memories of
its home.
Enfeeble Sap a creature’s strength.
Enhance Body H Infuse a creature’s body with magic power.
Enhance Weapon H Infuse a weapon with magic power.
Fear H Frighten a creature, possibly making it flee.
Force Barrage H Pelt creatures with unerring shards of
magical force.
Glow Up H You make a target more charming to observers.
Grim Tendrils H Creatures in a line take void damage and start
to bleed.
Ill Omen Curse a creature with misfortune.
Illusory Disguise H Make yourself look like a different creature.
Illusory Object H Form a convincing illusion of an object.
Lock H Make a lock much harder to open.
Mending H Repair one non-magical item.
Mind Skewer H Unleash mental damage on a target.
Mindlink Mentally impart 10 minutes’ worth of information
in an instant.
Motivating Ringtone H Cause a comm unit to ring out its
owner’s theme song.
Mystic Armor H Ward yourself with magical armor.
Phantasmal Minion Create a creature of force to perform
minor tasks.
Phantom Pain H Cause a creature ongoing pain that sickens it.
Protection H Raise a creature’s AC.
Sanctuary Protect a creature from being attacked.
Shifting Surge H Change weapon to a different energy type
and deal bonus damage of the original type.
Sleep H Put creatures in a small area to sleep.
Sonic Scream H Let loose a scream that affects creatures in
a cone.
Soothe H Heal the target and bolster them against mental attacks.
Spirit Link H Continually transfer your health to someone else.
Summon Fey H Conjure a fey to fight on your behalf.
Summon Undead H Conjure an undead to fight on your behalf.
Sure Strike Your next attack is especially accurate.
OCCULT 2ND-RANK SPELLS
Augury Predict whether a course of action brings good fortune.
Blur Target’s form becomes blurry and hard to hit.
Calm Suppress strong emotions and hostility.
Cleanse Affliction H Treat a curse, disease, or poison.
Clear Mind H Counteract fleeing, frightened, stupefied, and
related conditions.
Darkness H Suppress all light in an area.
Darkvision H See in the dark.
Deafness Make a creature deaf.
Detect Thoughts H Sense the surface thoughts of nearby
creatures.
Dispel Magic End a spell or suppress an item’s magic.
Doom Scroll Broadcast grim news that forces others to pay
attention.
Embed Message H Leave an illusory message to be triggered
at a later date.
Everlight Cause a gem to glow eternally.
False Vitality H Gain temporary Hit Points.
Ghostly Carrier Create a semicorporeal figure that carries
your touch spells to targets.
Humanoid Form H Take the shape of a humanoid.
Illusory Creature H Form a convincing illusion of a creature.
Invisibility H A creature can’t be seen until it attacks.
Knock Make a door, lock, or container easier to open, and
possibly open it immediately.
Laughing Fit Laughter impedes a creature’s actions.
Logic Bomb H Plant a mental bomb in a tech item that affects
a user when they next attempt to use the item.
Noise Blast H Damage and deafen creatures with a powerful
din.
Paranoia H Make a creature believe everyone is a threat.
Peaceful Rest H A corpse doesn’t decay and can’t become undead.
Resist Energy H Protect a creature from one type of energy
damage.
Revealing Light Dazzling light counters invisibility and
concealment.
See the Unseen H Reveal invisible creatures to your sight.
Shatter H Shatter an object with a high-frequency sonic attack.
Sift the Sphere H You sift through the infosphere and gain
insight about a topic.
Silence H Mute all sound from a willing creature.
Skim Data Touch an object to get the gist of the data in it.
Sound Body H Counteract blinded, dazzled, deafened,
enfeebled, sickened, and related conditions.
Spiritual Armament H Project a weapon imbued with spiritual
power.
Status H Keep track of a willing creature’s location and well-being.
Stupefy Dull a target’s mind and make spell casting
unreliable.
Sure Footing H Counteract clumsy, grabbed, paralyzed, or
related conditions.
Telekinetic Maneuver Disarm, Reposition, Shove, or Trip a
creature telekinetically.
Temporal Bullets Rewind time to do some damage with a
missed attack.
Translate H Grant understanding of a language to one creature.
Vibe Check H Insert psychically intense emotions into the
target, causing it to react differently as a result.
OCCULT 3RD-RANK SPELLS
Bind Undead Take control of a mindless undead.
Blindness Strike a target blind.
Clairaudience Hear through an invisible magical sensor.
Cozy Crashpad Conjure a temporary cabin sheltered from the
elements.
Electrotether H Manipulate electromagnetic forces on a
target, pulling them closer and dealing electricity damage.
Enthrall Your speech makes creatures fascinated with you.
Entropy Strike H Shoot a ray that decays matter.
Ghost Killer Weapon Make a weapon affect incorporeal
creatures.
Haste H Speed up a creature so it can attack or move more often.
Heroism H Stoke a creature’s inner heroism to make it more
competent.
308
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Holographic Memory U You extract a memory from the target
and replay it as a holographic vision.
Hypercognition Recall massive amounts of information in an
instant.
Hypnotize Shifting colors dazzle and fascinate creatures.
Levitate Float an object or creature a few feet off the ground.
Locate H, U Learn the direction to an object.
Mind Reading U Read a creature’s surface thoughts.
Paralyze H Freeze a creature in place.
Personal Gravity Alter gravity’s effects on you.
Selective Invisibility H The target becomes invisible to almost
everyone.
Share Pain H Share a sense of agonizing pain with the target,
dealing mental damage.
Skyfire Wings H Your arms become fiery wings.
Slow H Make a creature slower, reducing its actions.
Speak with Plants H Communicate with plants and plant
creatures.
Time’s Edge H Deal slashing damage as targets age horribly in
a tight beam area.
Vampiric Feast H Deal void damage and gain temporary Hit
Points with a touch.
Veil of Privacy U Protect a creature or object from magical
detection.
Void Whispers Eldritch voices impart secrets that lead the
target astray.
OCCULT 4TH-RANK SPELLS
Battle Sonata H Damage and deafen creatures with a dissonant
song.
Clairvoyance See through an invisible magical sensor.
Confusion H Befuddle a creature, making it act randomly.
Detect Scrying H, U Find out whether scrying effects are in the
area.
Dispelling Globe U Counteract magic that enters this sphere.
Eldritch Wrath H Channel unspeakable powers to create a
sickening quagmire of horrors.
Flicker H Protect yourself from most damage as you teleport
erratically.
Fly H Grant the target a fly Speed.
Honeyed Words Make even the most unlikely lies more
believable.
Nightmare Plague a creature’s dreams with disturbing
nightmares.
Outcast’s Curse Curse a creature to be off-putting and
abrasive.
Peaceful Bubble U Opaque bubble prevents detection, dreams,
perception, and scrying.
Planar Tether Keep a creature on its current plane.
Read Omens U Get a piece of advice about an upcoming event.
Rewrite Memory H, U Alter, erase, or implant memories.
Suggestion H Suggest a course of action a creature must
follow.
Talking Corpse U Have a corpse answer three questions.
Telepathy H Communicate telepathically with any creatures
near you.
Translocate H Teleport a moderate distance.
Vapor Form Transform your body into vapor.
Vision of Death H Show the target a vision of their own death,
causing fear and mental damage.
Weight of Ages H Burden a target with pain and mental
damage, weighing it down.
OCCULT 5TH-RANK SPELLS
Banishment H Send a creature back to its home plane.
Chrono Push H Push a target away and damage creatures
nearby.
Control Machine H, U Temporarily take control of a machine.
Dreaming Potential The target retrains in its dreams.
False Vision U Trick a scrying spell.
Hallucination H Cause a creature to believe one thing is
another, to notice something that isn’t there, or to be
unable to detect something.
Illusory Scene H Create an imaginary scene containing
multiple creatures and objects.
Mind Probe U Uncover knowledge and memories in a
creature’s mind.
Scouting Eye Invisible eye transmits what it sees to you.
Sending Send a message to a creature anywhere on the
planet and get a reply.
Shadow Blast H Shape a damaging cone of shadow substance
to deal damage of a type you choose.
Speak with Stones H Communicate with natural and worked
stone.
Subconscious Suggestion H Plant a suggestion in a creature’s
mind that it must follow when a trigger occurs.
Subjective Reality Convince yourself a creature or object
doesn’t exist so you can’t affect each other.
Summon Dragon H Conjure a dragon to fight on your behalf.
Summon Entity H Conjure an aberration to fight on your behalf.
Synaptic Pulse Slow creatures with a mental blast.
Telekinetic Haul Move a large object.
Truespeech H, U Let a creature understand and speak all languages.
Wave of Despair H Drive creatures in an area to despair.
OCCULT 6TH-RANK SPELLS
Cursed Metamorphosis Transform the target into a harmless
animal.
Dominate H, U A creature must obey your orders.
Dragon Form H Turn into a dragon.
Mislead Turn invisible and create a duplicate of yourself who
acts like you.
Never Mind Stupefy a creature permanently.
Phantasmal Calamity H Create visions of an apocalypse to
damage creatures mentally.
Repulsion Prevent creatures from approaching you.
Scrying U Spy on a creature you choose.
Slice Reality H Create a chasm of slicing entropy that attacks
creatures nearby.
Spirit Blast H Damage a creature’s spiritual essence.
Telekinetic Strangulation Telekinetically strangle a target
and hold it in place.
Teleport H, U Transport you and willing creatures a great
distance.
309
Truesight See through illusions and physical transformations.
Vampiric Exsanguination H Draw blood and life force from
creatures in a cone, harming them and healing yourself.
Vibrant Pattern Make a pattern of lights that dazzles and
blinds creatures who enter the area.
Wall of Force H Create an invisible and durable plane of
magical force.
X-Ray Vision U See through most solid materials.
OCCULT 7TH-RANK SPELLS
Energy Aegis H A creature gains resistance to acid, cold,
electricity, fire, force, sonic, vitality, and void damage.
Howl You let out a vibrating howl that compels others to join
in and deals damage.
Interplanar Teleport U Transport creatures to another plane in
the Multiverse.
Mask of Terror H Create a fearsome illusory appearance
frightens observers.
Planar Palace U Conjure a secure dwelling in a demiplane.
Planar Seal U Raise a barrier against teleportation and
summoning.
Possession H, U Send your mind and soul into another creature’s
body.
Project Image H Make an illusion of yourself you can cast
spells through.
Retrocognition H Sense impressions of past events at your
location.
True Target Make multiple attacks against a creature
especially accurate.
Warp Mind Confuse a creature, possibly permanently.
OCCULT 8TH-RANK SPELLS
Akashic Revival Create a record of your body in case you die.
Disappearance Make a creature invisible, silent, and
undetectable by special senses.
Gravity Field Create a field of increased gravity in an area as
you desire.
Phantasmal Fleet Create an illusory fleet of ships that causes
creatures to duck for cover.
Pinpoint U Learn the exact location of a creature or object.
Uncontrollable Dance Overcome a target with an allconsuming
urge to dance.
Void Vessel Survive in a vacuum and gain wings that let you
fly in space.
OCCULT 9TH-RANK SPELLS
Foresight Danger sense warns you when a creature is in
danger and protects it with good fortune.
Phantasmagoria Frighten, deal mental damage, and possibly
kill many targets.
Telekinetic Tantrum Unleash a barrage of powerful telekinetic
energy that has a variety of effects.
Wails of the Damned Scream, draining the living and causing
void damage.
OCCULT 10TH-RANK SPELLS
Fabricated Truth Make creatures believe something is factual.
Freeze Time Briefly stop time for everything but you.
Gate U Tear open a portal to another plane.
Indestructibility Become briefly immune to everything.
Manifestation Flexibly cast a 9th-rank spell from your
tradition.
Remake U Recreate a destroyed object.
PRIMAL SPELLS
PRIMAL CANTRIPS
Adhere Bond two objects together or charge a surface with
adhesive magic.
Analyze Target H Gather data about a target’s basic physiology.
Caustic Blast H Fling a glob of acid that splashes a small area.
Detect Magic H Sense whether magic is nearby.
Electric Arc H Zap one or two creatures with lightning.
Frostbite H Damage a creature with bitter cold.
Gouging Claw H Morph your limb into a claw and attack
with it.
Guidance Divine guidance improves one roll.
Ignition H Burn a creature up close or at range.
Light H Make an object glow.
Measure H You get measurements of creatures you can observe
in the area.
Prestidigitation Perform a minor magical trick.
Read Aura H Detect if an object is magical.
Reorient Help a target regain their footing.
Scan Environment H Scan nearby terrain and get an inherent
understanding of it.
Seek the Stars H Know the location of the Starstone or the
nearest Drift beacon.
Sigil H Leave a magical mark.
Stabilize Stabilize a dying creature.
Stumble H A burst of microgravity causes the target to stumble.
Tangle Vine H Conjure a vine to entangle a creature.
Vitality Lash H Damage and weaken the undead with vital
energy.
PRIMAL 1ST-RANK SPELLS
Air Bubble React to create air for a creature to breathe.
Alarm H Be alerted if a creature enters a warded area.
Ant Haul Target can carry more.
Breathe Fire H Release a small cone of flame from your mouth.
Cellular Stimulant H Stimulate the target’s body for a short
while at the expense of future energy.
Charm H A creature becomes more friendly to you.
Cleanse Cuisine H Make food and drink safe and delicious.
Create Water Conjure 2 gallons of water.
Detect Poison H, U Determine whether an object or creature is
poisonous or venomous.
Enhance Body H Infuse a creature’s body with magic power.
Enhance Weapon H Infuse a weapon with magic power.
Fear H Frighten a creature, possibly making it flee.
Fleet Step Make your Speed much faster.
Gentle Landing React to save a falling creature.
Glow Up H You make a target more charming to observers.
Grease Cover a target or an area with slippery grease.
310
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Gust of Wind Wind blows out fires and knocks back objects
and creatures.
Heal H Vital energy heals the living or harms the undead,
either a single creature or all in a burst.
Hydraulic Push H Damage and push a creature with a blast
of water.
Jump H Make an impressive leap.
Mending H Repair one non-magical item.
Mystic Armor H Ward yourself with magical armor.
Overheat H Heat up a creature and its held objects.
Pest Form H Turn into a nonthreatening animal.
Pummeling Rubble H Hurl a cone of rocks to batter creatures.
Sonic Scream H Let loose a scream that affects creatures in
a cone.
Summon Animal H Conjure an animal to fight for you.
Summon Fey H Conjure a fey to fight on your behalf.
Summon Plant or Fungus H Conjure a plant or fungus to fight
on your behalf.
Tailwind H Increase your speed for an hour.
Thunderstrike H Call down a thunderbolt.
Wisp Ally H A wisp of floating light distracts your enemies.
PRIMAL 2ND-RANK SPELLS
Acid Grip H Move and harm foes with a hand of acid.
Animal Form H Turn into a dangerous animal.
Blazing Bolt H Fire one to three flaming bolts at different foes.
Caustic Conversion H Send nanites to dissolve your target.
Cleanse Affliction H Treat a curse, disease, or poison.
Clear Mind H Counteract fleeing, frightened, stupefied, and
related conditions.
Create Food H Feed multiple creatures with conjured food.
Darkness H Suppress all light in an area.
Darkvision H See in the dark.
Deafness Make a creature deaf.
Dispel Magic End a spell or suppress an item’s magic.
Enlarge H Cause a creature to grow in size.
Entangling Flora Sprout plants to hinder movement in an area.
Environmental Endurance H Protect a creature from severe
cold or heat.
Everlight Cause a gem to glow eternally.
Floating Flame H Summoned fire moves at your command.
Humanoid Form H Take the shape of a humanoid.
Mist Conceal creatures with a cloud of mist.
Oaken Resilience H Confer a tree’s resilience and flammability.
One with Plants Meld into or turn into a plant.
Peaceful Rest H A corpse doesn’t decay and can’t become
undead.
Resist Energy H Protect a creature from one type of energy
damage.
Revealing Light Dazzling light counters invisibility and
concealment.
Shape Wood Transform unworked wood into a shape of your
choice.
Shatter H Shatter an object with a high-frequency sonic attack.
Shrink H Reduce a willing creature to Tiny size.
Soul Surge H You channel your own life force into a spear of
energy.
Sound Body H Counteract blinded, dazzled, deafened,
enfeebled, sickened, and related conditions.
Speak with Animals Communicate with animals.
Status H Keep track of a willing creature’s location and well-being.
Summon Elemental H Conjure an elemental to fight on your
behalf.
Sure Footing H Counteract clumsy, grabbed, paralyzed, or
related conditions.
Verdant Code Cause plant matter to sprout from a computer
and impede the area around it.
Void Seed H The target is now healed by the void and hurt by
life energy.
Water Breathing H Allow creatures to breathe underwater.
Water Walk H Buoy a creature so it can walk on water.
PRIMAL 3RD-RANK SPELLS
Blindness Strike a target blind.
Discharge Depower a tech creature or equipment.
Earthbind Bring a flying creature to the ground.
Electrotether H Manipulate electromagnetic forces on a
target, pulling them closer and dealing electricity damage.
Feline Senses H The target’s senses improve with feline ears,
eyes, and whiskers.
Fireball H An explosion of fire in an area burns creatures.
Haste H Speed up a creature so it can attack or move more often.
Holy Light H A ray of burning light deals extra damage to
fiends and other unholy creatures.
Insect Form H Turn into a dangerous giant insect.
Irradiate H Create a burst of magically enhanced radiation.
Life Seal H Protect a creature from harmful environments.
Lightning Bolt H Lightning strikes all creatures in a line.
One with Stone Meld into or turn into a stone.
Personal Gravity Alter gravity’s effects on you.
Skyfire Wings H Your arms become fiery wings.
Slow H Make a creature slower, reducing its actions.
Speak with Plants H Communicate with plants and plant
creatures.
Time’s Edge H Deal slashing damage as targets age horribly in
a tight beam area.
Veil of Privacy U Protect a creature or object from magical
detection.
Wall of Thorns H Grow a wall of brambles.
Wall of Wind Create a wall of gusting winds that hinders
movement and ranged attacks.
PRIMAL 4TH-RANK SPELLS
Aerial Form H Turn into a flying combatant.
Cairn Form H Rocky skin enhances the target’s offensive and
defensive capabilities.
Creation H Make a temporary object.
Explosion of Rot H A burst of deadly decay erupts in the area.
Fire Shield H Flames protect you from cold and harm those
that touch you.
Fly H Grant the target a fly Speed.
Genetic Regeneration H The target regenerates.
Hydraulic Torrent H Force creatures back with a damaging line
of water.
311
Mountain Resilience H Harden a creature to resist physical
attacks.
Shape Stone Reshape a cube of stone.
Unfettered Movement Repel effects that would hold a creature
in place.
Vapor Form Transform your body into vapor.
Vital Beacon H Radiate vitality that heals creatures that touch
you.
Wall of Fire H Create a blazing wall that burns creatures that
pass through.
PRIMAL 5TH-RANK SPELLS
Banishment H Send a creature back to its home plane.
Carcinization Transform a target into a crab.
Elemental Form H Turn into an elemental.
Howling Blizzard H Fill a cone or burst with cold winds and
snowdrifts.
Impaling Spike H Skewer a creature with a cold iron spike.
Magic Passage H, U Open a temporary passage through a
surface.
Nature’s Pathway H, U Teleport from tree to tree.
Overload Systems H Unleash a blast of electricity that shorts
out tech equipment.
Plant Form H Turn into a dangerous plant creature.
Speak with Stones H Communicate with natural and worked
stone.
Summon Dragon H Conjure a dragon to fight on your behalf.
Summon Giant H Conjure a giant to fight on your behalf.
Toxic Cloud H A bank of poison fog rolls away from you.
Wall of Ice H Sculpt a foot-thick wall of ice that blocks sight
and can chill creatures.
Wall of Stone H Shape a wall of stone.
Wave of Warning H A wave of hostile intent washes over your
enemies.
PRIMAL 6TH-RANK SPELLS
Chain Lightning H An arc of lightning jumps from creature to
creature.
Corrosive Haze H Create a cloud of corrosive nanites.
Cursed Metamorphosis Transform the target into a harmless
animal.
Dragon Form H Turn into a dragon.
Field of Life H Create a vital energy field that heals those who
remain within.
Petrify Turn a creature into a stone statue.
Pocket Vacuum H Create a sudden vacuum in an atmosphere,
damaging creatures with decompression.
Promession H Flash freeze a target and then render them to
dust with sonic vibrations.
Truesight See through illusions and physical transformations.
Wall of Plasma H Create a wall of damaging plasma energy.
PRIMAL 7TH-RANK SPELLS
Absolute Zero H Flash freeze and slow creatures.
Death Sentence H Condemn the target to be rejected by reality.
Eclipse Burst H Explode a globe of darkness that deals cold
damage, hurts the living, and overcomes light.
Energy Aegis H A creature gains resistance to acid, cold,
electricity, fire, force, sonic, vitality and void damage.
Execute H Pull a living creature toward death or an undead
creature toward destruction.
Howl You let out a vibrating howl that compels others to join
in and deals damage.
Interplanar Teleport U Transport creatures to another plane in
the Multiverse.
Mask of Terror H A creature’s fearsome illusory appearance
frightens observers.
Regenerate H Creature heals over time, regrows organs, and
reattaches body parts.
Root of All Pain You insert a pain-inducing root into the target’s
nervous system.
Sunburst H A globe of sunlight deals fire damage, hurts undead,
and overcomes darkness.
Unfettered Pack H Let creatures avoid environmental hindrances.
Void Scour H You scour the life from an area in a sphere of
desolate darkness.
Wall of Steel H Create a wall of solid steel.
PRIMAL 8TH-RANK SPELLS
Arctic Rift H Bitter cold damages and freezes a creature.
Desiccate H Pull moisture from creatures, damaging them.
Earthquake H Shake the ground with a devastating earthquake.
Gravity Field Create a field of increased gravity in an area as
you desire.
Moment of Renewal Give a creature a day’s worth of recovery
in an instant.
Monstrosity H Form Turn into a powerful monster.
Punishing Winds A cyclone inhibits flight and traps creatures.
Singularity Seed Create a dense gravitational seed that sucks
things in and deals massive void damage.
Void Vessel Survive in a vacuum and gain wings that let you
fly in space.
PRIMAL 9TH-RANK SPELLS
Atomic Blast Create a nuclear explosion with fallout.
Call Cosmos H Call down a column of cosmic matter to burn
and freeze.
Falling Stars H Call down four pieces of the heavens to deal
bludgeoning and elemental damage.
Implosion H Make a creature collapse in on itself.
Massacre H Instantly kill multiple creatures.
Metamorphosis Fluidly change between different forms.
Wrathful Storm H Create and control a massive storm.
PRIMAL 10TH-RANK SPELLS
Cataclysm Call an instant, devastating cataclysm.
Event Horizon Create a supermassive black hole that crushes
those near it.
Indestructibility Become briefly immune to everything.
Manifestation Flexibly cast a 9th-rank spell from your tradition.
Nature Incarnate U Turn into a massive avatar of nature.
Remake U Recreate a destroyed object.
Revival Heal creatures in an area and return the dead to life
temporarily.
312
7
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
SPELLS
The grand variety of spells includes those in the following pages and far more. Taught at magical
academies, drawn from other worlds, bestowed by mystical connections, and granted by all manner of
unknowable entities, spells can serve just about any purpose.
ABSOLUTE ZERO [two-actions] SPELL 7
COLD CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 500 feet; Area 30-foot burst
Defense Fortitude
A swirling vortex flash freezes the air, dealing 10d8 cold damage.
Each creature in the area must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is slowed 1 until the
start of your next turn.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage, is immobilized
by a layer of ice, and is slowed 1 as long as it’s immobilized.
The ice is an object with 50 Hit Points, Hardness 5, immunity
to cold damage, and vulnerability 10 to fire. It has object
immunities (page 236) and is destroyed if the target Escapes.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8 and the ice’s Hit
Points increase by 5.
ACID GRIP [two-actions] SPELL 2
ACID CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Reflex
An ephemeral, taloned hand grips the target, burning it
with magical acid. The target takes 2d8 acid damage plus
1d6 persistent acid damage depending on its Reflex save.
A creature taking persistent damage from this spell takes a
–10-foot status penalty to its Speeds.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage and no persistent
damage, and the claw moves it up to 5 feet in a direction
of your choice.
Failure The creature takes full damage and persistent damage,
and the claw moves it up to 10 feet in a direction of your
choice.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and full
persistent damage, and the claw moves it up to 20 feet in a
direction of your choice.
Heightened (+2) The initial damage increases by 2d8, and the
persistent acid damage increases by 1d6.
ADHERE [one-action] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 held or unattended object or a 5-footsquare
surface
Duration 1 minute
You create a molecular bond between an unattended object
you touch (or an object you’re holding) and another object or
surface that object is touching. Pulling the object free of that
surface requires a successful Athletics check against your
spell DC to Force Open.
If you instead touch one unoccupied 5-foot square, that
surface becomes charged with adhering magic. That space
becomes greater difficult terrain.
AERIAL FORM [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions arcane, primal
Duration 1 minute
You harness your mastery of the sky to reshape your body
into a Medium flying animal battle form. When you Cast this
Spell, choose a listed battle form. You can decide the specific
type of animal (such as an owl or eagle for bird), but this has
no effect on the form’s Size or statistics. While in this form,
you gain the animal trait. You can Dismiss the spell.
You gain specific abilities based on the animal you choose:
• AC = 18 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
• 5 temporary Hit Points.
• Low-light vision.
• One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks you
can Strike with. You’re trained with them. Your attack
modifier is +16, and your damage bonus is +5. These
attacks are Dexterity based (for the purpose of the
clumsy condition, for example). If your attack modifier
for Dexterity-based unarmed attacks is higher, you can
use it instead.
• Acrobatics modifier of +16, unless your own is higher.
You also gain specific abilities based on the form you choose:
• Bat Speed 20 feet, fly 30 feet; precise echolocation 40
feet; Melee [one-action] fangs, Damage 2d8 piercing; Melee [one-action]
wing (agile), Damage 2d6 bludgeoning.
• Bird Speed 10 feet, fly 50 feet; Melee [one-action] beak, Damage
2d8 piercing; Melee [one-action] talon (agile), Damage 1d10
slashing.
• Pterosaur Speed 10 feet, fly 40 feet; imprecise scent 30
feet; Melee [one-action] beak, Damage 3d6 piercing.
313
• Wasp Speed 20 feet, fly 40 feet; Melee [one-action] stinger,
Damage 1d8 piercing plus 1d6 persistent poison.
Heightened (5th) Your battle form is Large and your fly
Speed gains a +10-foot status bonus. You instead gain 10
temporary HP, attack modifier +18, damage bonus +8, and
Acrobatics +20.
Heightened (6th) Your battle form is Huge, your fly Speed
gains a +15-foot status bonus, and your attacks have
10-foot reach. You instead gain AC = 21 + your level, 15
temporary HP, attack modifier +21, damage bonus +4 and
double damage dice (including persistent damage), and
Acrobatics +23.
AIR BUBBLE [reaction] SPELL 1
AIR CONCENTRATE
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Trigger A creature within range enters an environment where
it can’t breathe.
Range 60 feet; Targets the triggering creature
Duration 1 minute
A bubble of pure air appears around the target’s head, allowing
it to breathe normally. The effect ends as soon as the target
returns to an environment where it can breathe normally.
AKASHIC DOWNLOAD [three-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions occult
Requirements You have a comm unit or computer, used as
a locus.
Duration 1 day
You execute a psychic search of the Akashic Record for
information about a specific topic and magically transfer this
data to your comm unit or computer. When you Cast this
Spell, choose any skill in which you’re trained that has the
Recall Knowledge action.
Any time during the duration, you can consult your comm
unit while attempting a Recall Knowledge check using your
chosen skill. This check gains a +1 status bonus. Checking
your comm unit is part of the action to Recall Knowledge.
You must be holding the comm unit to do so. The comm unit
instantly compiles and displays snippets and selections from
various media relevant to the topic, which grants you the
bonus. If you roll a critical failure on this check, you get a
failure instead. If the check is successful and the subject is
a creature, you gain additional information or context about
the creature. Once you reference the comm unit, the spell
ends. When the spell ends, your access to the Akashic Record
ends, and all the information you downloaded returns to the
Akashic Record.
Heightened (3rd) You can reference your comm unit three
times before the spell ends.
AKASHIC REVIVAL SPELL 8
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions occult
Cast 10 minutes
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 1 day
You dispatch perfect documentation of the target’s physical
body to the Akashic Record, allowing it to later recall this
record and reconstruct its body as it was when you cast this
spell. The record includes the target’s current Hit Points,
augmentations, attribute modifiers, and any afflictions or
conditions it had.
If the target dies of anything other than old age, it
can recall its recorded body from the Akashic Record.
This process takes 1 minute, after which time its corpse
disappears, and the target instantly reappears in the
recorded body in the corpse’s space and with any worn
equipment. It re-forms standing and can choose to pick up
any equipment it dropped in the space from when it died,
assuming the equipment is still there. If it can’t occupy that
space, it appears as close to the space as possible, though it
must still retrieve its equipment. It retains its mind as it was
at the time of the body’s death, so it regains no expended
spells, Focus Points, or uses of special abilities. Any mental
effects affecting the target at the time of its death persist
in its new body.
Retrieving the body from the Akashic Record or having
the duration expire removes the stored information from the
Akashic Record, requiring you to cast this spell again.
Casting the spell replaces any previous record you’ve
stored with prior castings—you can store only one copy of
any creature in the Akashic Record using this spell.
ALARM SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast 10 minutes
Range touch; Area 20-foot burst
Duration 8 hours
You ward an area to alert you when creatures enter without
your permission. When you cast alarm, select a password.
Whenever a Small or larger corporeal creature enters the
spell’s area without speaking the password, alarm sends your
choice of a mental alert (in which case the spell gains the
mental trait) or an audible alarm with the sound and volume
of a hand bell (in which case the spell gains the auditory trait).
Either option automatically awakens you, and the bell allows
each creature in the area to attempt a DC 15 Perception check
to wake up. A creature aware of the alarm must succeed at a
Stealth check against the spell’s DC or trigger the spell when
moving into the area.
Heightened (3rd) You can specify a trigger for which types
of creatures sound the alarm spell, as described in Setting
Triggers on page 301.
ANALYZE TARGET [one-action[two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE DETECTION MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 hour
You focus on the target, gathering data as magical holograms
display information. When the casting is complete, you
314
7
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
learn biometric information about the target, including its
fingerprints, medical conditions, and other basic physiological
information. You or anyone you advise about the analysis
gains a +1 status bonus to checks to Impersonate the creature,
to Treat Wounds on the creature, and to Recall Knowledge
about it. If the target is illusory or under the effects of illusion
magic, you detect this only if the effect’s rank is lower than
the rank of your analyze target spell.
Heightened (3rd) The circumstance bonus increases to +2,
and you can target up to 10 creatures.
Heightened (6th) The circumstance bonus increases to +3,
and you can target any number of creatures.
ANIMAL FORM [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions primal
Duration 1 minute
You call upon primal energy to transform yourself into a
Medium animal battle form. When you Cast this Spell, choose
a listed battle form. You can decide the specific type of animal
(such as lion or snow leopard for cat), but this has no effect
on the form’s Size or statistics. While in this form, you gain
the animal trait. You can Dismiss the spell.
You gain specific abilities based on the animal you choose:
• AC = 16 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
• 5 temporary Hit Points.
• Low-light vision and imprecise scent 30 feet.
• One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks
you can Strike with. You’re trained with them. Your
attack modifier is +9, and your damage bonus is +1.
These attacks are Strength based (for the purpose of
the enfeebled condition, for example). If your unarmed
attack bonus is higher, you can use it instead.
• Athletics modifier of +9, unless your own is higher.
You also gain specific abilities based on the animal you
choose:
• Ape Speed 25 feet, climb 20 feet; Melee [one-action] fist, Damage
2d6 bludgeoning.
• Bear Speed 30 feet; Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 2d8
piercing; Melee [one-action] claw (agile), Damage 1d8 slashing.
• Bull Speed 30 feet; Melee [one-action] horn, Damage 2d8 piercing.
• Canine Speed 40 feet; Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 2d8
piercing.
• Cat Speed 40 feet; Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 2d6 piercing;
Melee [one-action] claw (agile), Damage 1d10 slashing.
• Deer Speed 50 feet; Melee [one-action] antler, Damage 2d6
piercing.
• Frog Speed 25 feet, swim 25 feet; Melee [one-action] jaws,
Damage 2d6 bludgeoning; Melee [one-action] tongue (reach 15
feet), Damage 2d4 bludgeoning.
• Shark swim 35 feet; Melee [one-action] jaws, Damage 2d8
piercing; breathe underwater but not in air.
• Snake Speed 20 feet, climb 20 feet, swim 20 feet; Melee
[one-action] fangs, Damage 2d4 piercing plus 1d6 poison.
315
Akashic Revival
Heightened (3rd) You instead gain 10 temporary HP, AC = 17
+ your level, attack modifier +14, damage bonus +5, and
Athletics +14.
Heightened (4th) Your battle form is Large and your attacks
have 10-foot reach. You instead gain 15 temporary HP, AC
= 18 + your level, attack modifier +16, damage bonus +9,
and Athletics +16.
Heightened (5th) Your battle form is Huge and your attacks
have 15-foot reach. You instead gain 20 temporary HP, AC
= 18 + your level, attack modifier +18, damage bonus +7
and double the number of damage dice, and Athletics +20.
ANT HAUL [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 8 hours
You reinforce the target’s musculoskeletal system to bear
more weight. The target can carry 3 more Bulk than normal
before becoming encumbered and up to a maximum of 6
more Bulk.
ARCTIC RIFT [two-actions] SPELL 8
COLD CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Area 120-foot line
Defense Fortitude
A jagged crack opens in the air, dealing 12d8 cold damage
as it draws away warmth. Each creature along the rift must
attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is slowed 1 until
the start of your next turn.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage, is
immobilized by a layer of ice, and is slowed 1 as long as
it’s immobilized. The ice is an object with 60 Hit Points,
Hardness 5, immunity to cold damage, and vulnerability 10
to fire. It has object immunities (page 236) and is destroyed
if the target Escapes.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8 and the ice’s
Hit Points increase by 5.
ATOMIC BLAST [three-actions] SPELL 9
CONCENTRATE FIRE MANIPULATE RADIATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 500 feet; Area 100-foot burst
Defense Reflex; Duration 1 minute
You magically split an atom, creating an explosion with
radioactive fallout. All targets in the area take 5d12
bludgeoning damage and 5d12 fire damage, and they’re
exposed to extreme radiation (GM Core 91) that uses your
spellcasting DC as the Fortitude DC for radiation sickness
incurred by exposure to this radiation. The onset and
frequency of this magical radiation is 1 round, and the area
remains radioactive for 10 minutes.
Critical Success The target is unaffected by the initial damage.
Success The target takes half damage and is dazzled for 1
minute.
Failure The target takes full damage and is blinded for 1
minute.
Critical Failure As failure, and the target takes double
damage.
AUGURY SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE PREDICTION
Traditions divine, occult
Cast 10 minutes
You gain a vague glimpse of the future. During the casting
of this spell, ask about the results of a particular course of
action. The spell can predict results up to 30 minutes into the
future and reveal the GM’s best guess among the following
outcomes: good, bad, mixed (the results will be a mix of good
and bad), and nothing (there won’t be particularly good or
bad results).
The GM rolls a secret DC 6 flat check. On a failure, the
result is always “nothing.” This makes it impossible to tell
whether a “nothing” result is accurate. If anyone asks about
the same topic as the first casting of augury during an
additional casting, the GM uses the secret roll result from the
first casting. If circumstances change, though, it’s possible to
get a different result.
AVATAR [two-actions] SPELL 10
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions divine
Duration 1 minute
You transform into an avatar of your deity, assuming a Huge
battle form. You have hands in this battle form and can take
manipulate actions. You can Dismiss this spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless
of which deity’s battle form you assume.
• AC = 25 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
• 30 temporary Hit Points.
• Darkvision.
• Cosmic trait.
• One or more attacks specific to your deity’s battle form,
which are the only attacks you can Strike with. You’re
trained with them. Your attack modifier is +33, and
you use the listed damage. Melee attacks are Strength
based (for the purposes of the enfeebled condition,
for example) unless they have the finesse trait, and all
ranged attacks are Dexterity based.
• Athletics modifier of +35, unless your own is higher.
You also gain the specific abilities listed for your deity below.
• Abadar Speed 50 feet, burrow 30 feet, immune to
immobilized; Ranged [one-action] crossbolter (range increment
120 feet, reload 1), Damage 6d10+3 piercing.
• Besmara Speed 40 feet, swim 70 feet, immune to
immobilized; Melee [one-action] rapier (deadly 3d8, disarm,
finesse, reach 15 feet), Damage 6d6+6 piercing;
Ranged [one-action] breaching gun (range 120 feet), Damage
6d6+3 piercing.
316
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
• Damoritosh Speed 70 feet, immune to immobilized;
Melee [one-action] doshko (reach 15 feet, sweep), Damage
6d12+6 slashing; Ranged [two-actions] machine gun (analog,
automatic, range 80 feet), Damage 6d6+3 piercing.
• The Devourer Speed 50 feet, burrow 30 feet, immune
to immobilized; Melee [one-action] jaws (reach 15 feet), Damage
6d12+6 piercing; Melee [one-action] disintegration tendril (agile,
reach 20 feet, versatile P), Damage 6d8+6 acid.
• Eloritu Speed 70 feet, ignore difficult terrain and
greater difficult terrain; Melee [one-action] singing spear (reach
20 feet, versatile P), Damage 6d6+3 sonic; Ranged [one-action]
singing spear (thrown 40 feet), Damage 3d8+1 piercing
plus 3d8+1 sonic.
• Hylax Speed 70 feet, fly 70 feet, thoughtsense
(precise) 60 feet; Melee [one-action] talon (reach 15 feet,
versatile S), Damage 6d8+6 acid; Ranged [one-action] pacifying
buzz (nonlethal, range 60 feet), Damage 6d6+3
mental.
• Ibra Speed 30 feet, fly 70 feet, ignore hazardous
terrain; Melee [one-action] inscrutable touch (caster, finesse,
reach 15 feet), Damage 6d6+3 fire; Ranged [one-action] plasma
blast (range 100 feet), Damage 6d8+3 fire plus 2d8
persistent electricity.
• Lambatuin Speed 70 feet, fly 70 feet; Melee [one-action]
polyglove (powered, professional [Computers], reach
15 feet, tech), Damage 6d8+6 electricity; Area Fire
[two-actions] polyphonic jolt (30-foot cone, unwieldy), Damage
6d6+3 electricity.
• Lao Shu Po Speed 70 feet, climb 70 feet, immune to
frightened; Melee [one-action] bite (reach 15 feet), Damage
6d8+6 piercing; Area Fire [two-actions] nightmare rat swarm
(30-foot burst, range 120 feet), Damage 4d6+4 piercing
plus 2d6 mental.
• Lissala Speed 70 feet, fly 70 feet, immune to emotion
effects; Melee [one-action] whip (disarm, finesse, nonlethal, reach
10 feet, trip), Damage 6d8+6 slashing; Ranged [one-action] aeon
rifle (aeon, caster, range 120 feet), Damage 6d6+4 fire.
• Meyel Speed 70 feet, fly 70 feet, immune to slow
and stunned; Melee [one-action] battle ribbon (analog, finesse,
reach 20 feet, trip), Damage 6d8+6 slashing; Area
Fire [two-actions] fury storm (area, burst, 30 feet), Damage
6d6+4 electricity.
• The Newborn no land Speed, fly 70 feet, immune to
mental effects; Ranged [one-action] planetary debris (range 120
feet), Damage 6d10 void.
• Oras Speed 50 feet, burrow 30 feet, fly 50 feet, swim
50 feet; Melee [one-action] tentacle (agile, finesse, reach 20
feet, versatile S), Damage 6d6 bludgeoning; Ranged
[one-action] virulent protoslime (range 120 feet), Damage
6d6+3 poison.
• Pharasma Speed 70 feet, fly 70 feet; Melee [one-action] dagger
(agile, finesse, reach 15 feet, thrown 40 feet, versatile
S), Damage 6d6+6 piercing; Ranged [one-action] spiral blast
(damages only undead, range 120 feet), Damage
6d8+3 vitality.
• Talavet Speed 70 feet, fly 70 feet; Melee [one-action] puzzleblade
(analog, breakdown, reach 15 feet), Damage 6d6+3
slashing; Ranged [one-action] hearth blaze (fire, range 120 feet),
Damage 6d6+3 fire.
• Triune Speed 70 feet, character and gear are immune
to glitching; Melee [one-action] shock pad (nonlethal, reach 15
feet), Damage 6d6+6 electricity; Ranged [one-action] logic blast
(range 120 feet), Damage 6d6+3 mental.
• Urgathoa Speed 70 feet, fly 70 feet; Melee [one-action] scythe
(deadly 3d10, reach 15 feet, trip), Damage 6d10+6
slashing; Ranged [one-action] pallid bolt (range 120 feet),
Damage 6d6+3 void.
• Weydan Speed 70 feet, fly 70 feet, immune to
immobilized; Melee [one-action] battle glove (agile, freehand),
Damage 6d4+6 bludgeoning; Ranged [one-action] laser rifle
(range 100 feet), Damage 6d8+6 fire.
• Yaraesa Speed 30 feet, fly 70 feet, +4 status bonus to
saves against mental effects; Melee [one-action] overwhelming
touch (agile), Damage 6d6+4 mental; Ranged [one-action] seeker
rifle (range 120 feet), Damage 6d10+2 piercing.
• Zon-Shelyn Speed 70 feet, fly 70 feet, ignore difficult
terrain and greater difficult terrain; Melee [one-action] painglaive
(deadly 3d8, reach 20 feet), Damage 6d8+6 slashing;
Ranged [one-action] tortured opus (nonlethal, range 120 feet),
Damage 3d6+1 sonic plus 3d6+1 mental.
BANE [two-actions] SPELL 1
AURA CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Area 10-foot emanation
Defense Will; Duration 1 minute
You fill the minds of your enemies with doubt. Enemies in the
area must succeed at a Will save or take a –1 status penalty to
attack rolls as long as they are in the area. Once per round on
subsequent turns, you can Sustain the spell to increase the
emanation’s radius by 10 feet and force enemies in the area
that weren’t yet affected to attempt another saving throw.
Bane can counteract bless.
BANISHMENT [two-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature that isn’t on its home plane
Defense Will
You send the target back to its home plane. The target
must attempt a Will save. You can spend an extra action
while Casting this Spell and add a cost to the spell to give
the creature a –2 circumstance penalty to its save. The cost
must be a specially gathered object that is anathema to the
creature. This spell fails if you aren’t on your home plane
when you cast it.
Critical Success The target resists being banished and you
are stunned 1.
Success The target resists being banished.
Failure The target is banished.
Critical Failure The target is banished and can’t return by any
means to the plane it’s banished from for 1 week.
Heightened (9th) You can target up to 10 creatures. The extra
cost affects targets to which it is anathema.
317
BATTLE SONATA [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SONIC
Traditions divine, occult
Area 15-foot cone
Defense Will
This spell was composed by pahtra battle singers of Pulonis
to amplify a dissonant song into a deadly wave that deals
4d10 sonic damage. Each creature must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is deafened for
1 round.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage, is
deafened for 1 minute, and becomes stunned 1.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10.
BIND UNDEAD [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 mindless undead creature with a
level no greater than bind undead’s spell rank
Duration 1 day
With a word of power, you seize control of the target. It gains
the minion trait. If you or an ally uses any hostile actions
against the target, the spell ends.
BLAZING BOLT [one-action] TO [three-actions] SPELL 2
ATTACK CONCENTRATE FIRE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 or more creatures
Defense AC
You fire a ray of heat and flame. Make a spell attack roll
against a single creature. On a hit, the target takes 2d6 fire
damage, and on a critical hit, the target takes double damage.
For each additional action you use when Casting the
Spell, you can fire an additional ray at a different target, to a
maximum of three rays targeting three different targets for
3 actions. These attacks each increase your multiple attack
penalty, but you don’t increase your multiple attack penalty
until after you make all the spell attack rolls for blazing bolt.
If you spend 2 or more actions Casting the Spell, the damage
increases to 4d6 fire damage on a hit, and it still deals double
damage on a critical hit.
Heightened (+1) The damage to each target increases by 1d6
for the 1-action version, or by 2d6 for the 2- and 3-action
versions.
BLESS [two-actions] SPELL 1
AURA CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Area 15-foot emanation
Duration 1 minute
Blessings from beyond help your companions strike true. You
and your allies gain a +1 status bonus to attack rolls while
within the emanation. Once per round on subsequent turns,
you can Sustain the spell to increase the emanation’s radius by
10 feet. Bless can counteract bane.
BLINDNESS [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Fortitude
You blind the target. The effect is determined by the target’s
Fortitude save. The target then becomes temporarily
immune for 1 minute.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is blinded until its next turn begins.
Failure The target is blinded for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The target is blinded permanently.
BLUR [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 minute
The target’s form appears blurry. It becomes concealed. As
the nature of this effect still leaves the target’s location
obvious, the target can’t use this concealment to Hide
or Sneak.
BREATH OF LIFE [reaction] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE HEALING VITALITY
Traditions divine
Trigger A living creature within range would die.
Range 60 feet; Targets the triggering creature
Your blessing revives a creature at the moment of its
death. You prevent the target from dying and restore 5d8
Hit Points to the target. You can’t use breath of life if the
triggering effect was a death effect or an effect that leaves
no remains, such as disintegrate.
Heightened (+2) The healing increases by 1d8.
BREATHE FIRE [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE FIRE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Area 15-foot cone
Defense basic Reflex
A gout of flame sprays from your mouth. You deal 2d6 fire
damage to creatures in the area with a basic Reflex save.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
CAIRN FORM [one-action] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE EARTH MANIPULATE MORPH
Traditions arcane, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 minute
Your target’s skin becomes a thick carapace of solid
stone, granting resistance 5 to physical damage, except
adamantine. The target gains a fist unarmed attack that
deals 2d6 bludgeoning damage. The target uses their
highest weapon or unarmed attack proficiency with these
attacks, and if they have weapon specialization or greater
weapon specialization, they add this damage as well. On a
critical hit with one of these unarmed attacks, the creature
318
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
struck must succeed at a Fortitude save against the target’s
class DC or become stunned 1 for 1 round.
Heightened (6th) The resistance increases to 10, and the
damage dealt by the attacks increases to 3d6.
Heightened (10th) The resistance increases to 20, and the
damage dealt by the attacks increases to 4d6.
CALL COSMOS [two-actions] SPELL 9
COLD CONCENTRATE FIRE MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, primal
Range 500 feet; Area 20-foot radius, 40-foot tall cylinder
Defense basic Reflex; Duration 1 minute
You reach into the void and call down a vertical column
of dangerous cosmic material that rains destruction upon
creatures in the area and shrouds the terrain around it in a
swirl of stardust. This matter is made up of bits of burning
stars and chunks of frozen comets, and it deals 5d12 cold
damage and 5d12 fire damage to every creature in the area
when you Cast the Spell. For the spell’s duration, the cosmic
material reduces visibility and mobility, making the area
greater difficult terrain and making everything seen within
or through the area concealed.
Heightened (10th) The cold and fire damage each increase
by 2d12.
CALM [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE EMOTION INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot burst
Defense Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You forcibly calm creatures in the area, soothing them into
a nonviolent state; each creature must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success Calming urges impose a –1 status penalty to the
creature’s attack rolls.
Failure Any emotion effects that would affect the creature
are suppressed and the creature can’t use hostile actions.
If the target is subject to hostility from any other creature,
it ceases to be affected by calm.
Critical Failure As failure, but hostility doesn’t end the
effect.
CARCINIZATION [two-actions] SPELL 5
INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Fortitude; Duration 1 minute
You manipulate the target’s genetic code and accelerate the
inevitable, pressuring the target to undergo carcinization
and become a crab. A willing target fully transforms into a
crab, as if it had cast animal form heightened to the same
rank as this spell and using the following statistics.
• Crab Speed 25 feet, swim 15 feet; Melee [one-action] big claw,
Damage 2d8 piercing; Melee [one-action] claw (agile), Damage
2d4 piercing. Can breathe air and water.
Unwilling targets must instead attempt a Fortitude save.
319
Cairn Form
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target’s body gains minor features of a crab, its
appendages turning into claws and causing it to become
clumsy 1.
Failure The target transforms into a partial crab-like being,
becoming clumsy 1, stupefied 1, and sickened 1.
Critical Failure The target is transformed into a partial
crab-like being and becomes clumsy 2, stupefied 2, and
sickened 2.
CATACLYSM [two-actions] SPELL 10
ACID AIR COLD CONCENTRATE EARTH ELECTRICITY FIRE MANIPULATE WATER
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 1,000 feet; Area 60-foot burst
Defense basic Reflex
You call upon the unimaginable power of world-ending
cataclysms, ripping a small piece of each cataclysm and
combining them together into one horrifically powerful
attack. The following effects come down upon all creatures
in the area. Treat the resistances of creatures in the area
as if they were 10 lower for the purpose of determining the
cataclysm’s damage. Each creature attempts one basic Reflex
save that applies to all five types of damage.
• Flesh-dissolving acid rain deals 3d10 acid damage.
• A roaring earthquake shakes and bludgeons creatures
on the ground, dealing 3d10 bludgeoning damage.
• A blast of freezing wind deals 3d10 cold damage.
• Incredible lightning lashes the area, dealing 3d10
electricity damage.
• Beating winds churn across the sky, dealing 3d10
bludgeoning damage to creatures flying in the area.
• An instant tsunami sweeps over creatures in the
area, dealing 3d10 bludgeoning damage (doubled for
creatures swimming in the area).
• A massive wildfire burns in a sudden inferno, dealing
3d10 fire damage.
CAUSTIC BLAST [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
ACID CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 30 feet; Area 5-foot burst
Defense basic Reflex
You fling a large glob of acid that immediately detonates,
spraying nearby creatures. Creatures in the area take 1d8
acid damage with a basic Reflex save; on a critical failure,
the creature also takes 1 persistent acid damage.
Heightened (+2) The initial damage increases by 1d8, and
the persistent damage on a critical failure increases by 1.
CAUSTIC CONVERSION [two-actions] SPELL 2
ACID ATTACK CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense AC
You launch a torrent of magical nanites that begin dissolving
your target. Make a ranged spell attack against the target.
On a hit, you deal 3d8 acid damage plus 1d6 persistent
acid damage. On a critical hit, double the initial damage, but
not the persistent damage.
Heightened (+2) The initial damage increases by 2d8, and
the persistent acid damage increases by 1d6.
CELLULAR STIMULANT [one-action] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE VITALITY
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 willing living creature that isn’t
fatigued or quickened
Duration 1 round
You vitalize and stimulate the target at a cellular level,
giving it a temporary burst of energy that unfortunately
takes an exhausting toll. The target gains the quickened
condition and can use the extra action to Stride or Strike.
After that round ends, the target becomes fatigued until it
can rest for 10 minutes.
Heightened (6th) You can target up to six creatures by using
2 actions to Cast this Spell.
CHAIN LIGHTNING [two-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE ELECTRICITY MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 500 feet; Targets 1 creature, plus any number of
additional creatures
Defense basic Reflex
You discharge a powerful bolt of lightning at the target,
dealing 8d12 electricity damage. The target must attempt
a basic Reflex save. The electricity then arcs to another
creature within 30 feet of the first target, jumps to another
creature within 30 feet of that target, and so on. You can
end the chain at any point. You can’t target the same
creature more than once, and you must have line of effect
to all targets. Roll the damage only once and apply it to
each target (halving or doubling as appropriate for its saving
throw outcome). The chain ends if any one of the targets
critically succeeds at its save.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d12.
CHARM [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE EMOTION INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE MENTAL SUBTLE
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration 1 hour
To the target, your words are honey and your visage seems
bathed in a dreamy haze. It must attempt a Will save, with
a +4 circumstance bonus if you or your allies recently
threatened it or used hostile actions against it.
You can Dismiss the spell. If you use hostile actions
against the target, the spell ends. When the spell ends, the
target doesn’t necessarily realize it was charmed unless its
friendship with you or the actions you convinced it to take
clash with its expectations, meaning you could potentially
convince the target to continue being your friend via
mundane means.
Critical Success The target is unaffected and aware you tried
to charm it.
320
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Success The target is unaffected but thinks your spell was
something harmless instead of charm, unless it identifies
the spell (see Identifying Spells on page 301).
Failure The target’s attitude becomes friendly toward you.
If it was friendly, it becomes helpful. It can’t use hostile
actions against you.
Critical Failure The target’s attitude becomes helpful toward
you, and it can’t use hostile actions against you.
Heightened (4th) The duration lasts until your next daily
preparations.
Heightened (8th) The duration lasts until your next daily
preparations, and you can target up to 10 creatures.
CHILLING DARKNESS [two-actions] SPELL 3
ATTACK COLD CONCENTRATE DARKNESS MANIPULATE UNHOLY
Traditions divine
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense AC
You shoot an utterly cold ray of darkness tinged with unholy
energy. Make a ranged spell attack. The ray deals 5d6 cold
damage. If the target has the holy trait, you deal an extra
5d6 spirit damage.
Critical Success The target takes double damage.
Success The target takes full damage.
If the ray passes through an area of magical light or
targets a creature affected by magical light, chilling darkness
attempts to counteract the light. If you need to determine
whether the ray passes through an area of light, draw a line
between yourself and the spell’s target.
Heightened (+1) The cold damage increases by 2d6, and the
spirit damage against holy creatures increases by 2d6.
CHRONO PUSH [two-actions] SPELL 5
ATTACK CONCENTRATE FORCE MANIPULATE
Traditions occult
Range 500 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense AC and basic Reflex
You push a creature across the battlefield so hard it slides
through time. Make a ranged spell attack. On a hit, you knock
the target back 15 feet in a straight line (30 feet on a critical
hit). If the pushed creature makes contact with a solid barrier
or another creature, its movement ends. At the end of this
movement, the creature reenters the flow of time with a burst
of temporal energy. The target and creatures now adjacent to
the target take 7d8 force damage with a basic Reflex save.
Heightened (+1) The force damage increases by 1d8.
CLAIRAUDIENCE SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SCRYING
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute
Range 500 feet
Duration 10 minutes
You create an invisible floating ear at a location within range
(even if it’s outside your line of sight or line of effect). It can’t
move, but you can hear through the ear as if using your
normal auditory senses.
CLAIRVOYANCE SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SCRYING
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute
Range 500 feet
Duration 10 minutes
You create an invisible floating eye at a location within range
(even if it’s outside your line of sight or line of effect). The eye
can’t move, but you can see in all directions from that point
as if using your normal visual senses.
CLEANSE AFFLICTION [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE HEALING MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
Gentle restorative magic pushes back the effects of toxins
and more complex maladies. Choose an affliction on the
target, such as a curse, disease, or poison. If it has advanced
past stage one, reduce the stage by one. This reduction can
be applied only once to a given case of an affliction, with
the case ending when it’s completely cured. Although the
reduction can’t occur again, heightened versions of this spell
attempt to counteract with each casting.
Heightened (3rd) Attempt to counteract the affliction (page
301) if it is a disease or poison.
Heightened (4th) Attempt to counteract the affliction if it is a
curse, disease, or poison.
CLEANSE CUISINE [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, primal
Range 10 feet; Area 1 cubic foot
You transform all food and beverages in the area into
delicious fare, changing water into wine or another fine
beverage, or enhancing the food’s taste and ingredients to
make it a gourmet treat. You can also choose to remove all
toxins and contaminations from the food. This spell doesn’t
prevent future contamination, natural decay, or spoilage, nor
does it make the food any more nutritious.
Heightened (+2) Add another cubic foot to the area, which
must be contiguous with the rest.
CLEAR MIND [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE HEALING MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
You drive mental contamination from the target’s mind.
Attempt to counteract (page 423) an effect of your choice
imposing one of these conditions on the target: fleeing,
frightened, and stupefied. If you failed to counteract the
effect but you would have if its counteract rank were 2 lower,
instead suppress the effect until the beginning of your next
turn. The effect’s duration doesn’t elapse while it’s suppressed.
This spell can’t counteract or suppress conditions that are
part of curses, diseases, or a natural state of the target.
Heightened (4th) Add confused, controlled, and slowed to the
list of conditions.
321
Heightened (6th) Add doomed to the list of conditions.
Heightened (8th) Add stunned to the list of conditions.
COMMAND [two-actions] SPELL 1
AUDITORY CONCENTRATE LINGUISTIC MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration until the end of the target’s next turn
You shout a command that’s hard to ignore. You can
command the target to approach you, run away (as if it had
the fleeing condition), release what it’s holding, drop prone,
or stand in place. It can’t Delay or take any reactions until
it has obeyed your command. The effects depend on the
target’s Will save.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature must spend the first action on its next
turn to obey your command.
Critical Failure The target must use all its actions on its next
turn to obey your command.
Heightened (5th) You can target up to 10 creatures.
CONFUSION [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE EMOTION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration 1 minute
You befuddle your target with strange impulses, causing it to
act randomly. The effects are determined by the target’s Will
save. You can Dismiss the spell.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target babbles incoherently and is stunned 1.
Failure The target is confused for 1 minute. It can attempt a
new save at the end of each of its turns to end the confusion.
Critical Failure The target is confused for 1 minute, with no
save to end early.
Heightened (8th) You can target up to 10 creatures.
CONTINGENCY SPELL 7
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane
Cast 10 minutes
Duration until your next daily preparations
You prepare a spell that will trigger later. While casting
contingency, you also cast another spell of 4th rank or lower
with a casting time of no more than 3 actions. This companion
spell must be one that can affect you. You must make any
decisions for the spell when you cast contingency, such as
choosing a damage type for resist energy. During the casting,
choose a trigger under which the spell will be cast, using the
same restrictions as for the trigger of a Ready action. Once
contingency is cast, you can cause the companion spell to
come into effect as a reaction with that trigger. It affects
only you, even if it would affect more creatures. If you define
complicated conditions, as determined by the GM, the trigger
might fail. If you cast contingency again, the newer casting
supersedes the older.
Heightened (8th) You can choose a spell of 5th rank or lower.
Heightened (9th) You can choose a spell of 6th rank or lower.
Heightened (10th) You can choose a spell of 7th rank or lower.
CONTROL MACHINE [two-actions] SPELL 5
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature or hazard with the tech trait
Defense Will; Duration until the next time you make your
daily preparations
You take control of a technological creature or object and
command it telepathically. If you issue an obviously selfdestructive
order to a sapient target, the target doesn’t
act until you issue a new order. The effect depends on its
Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is stunned 1 as it fights off your commands.
Failure You control the target. It gains the controlled
condition, but it can attempt a Will save at the end of each
of its turns. On a success, the spell ends.
Critical Failure As a failure, but the target receives a new
save only if it’s sapient and you give it a new order that’s
against its nature, such as killing its allies.
Heightened (10th) The duration is unlimited.
CORROSIVE HAZE [two-actions] SPELL 6
ACID CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Defense basic Fortitude; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You unleash a cloud of corrosive nanites. Creatures that start
their turn in the area take 6d8 acid damage and 1d6 persistent
acid damage with a basic Fortitude save. The nanites also
corrode any unattended objects in the area, dealing 3d8 acid
damage. Each round you Sustain the spell, you can move the
cloud up to 10 feet in any direction. You can Dismiss the spell.
Heightened (+1) The initial damage increases by 1d8, and the
persistent acid damage increases by 1d6.
COZY CRASHPAD SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE METAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute
Range 30 feet
Duration 12 hours
You shape a shack 20 feet on each side and 10 feet high.
This shack has the structure trait and the same restrictions as
magic items that create structures. The walls of the cottage
are simple and metal, with small, metal shuttered windows,
and it has one metal door. It doesn’t include its own lock, but
it has a fastener to which a lock can be applied.
The interior contains three cots, one toilet, and a small
stove powered by magic. The interior is lit with a small
magical light that you can light or extinguish at will using
a Sustain action. The climate inside the shack is comfortable
and allows creatures inside it to withstand most hostile
weather conditions, but incredible heat or cold, powerful
storms, and winds of hurricane force or greater destroy
322
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
the cottage. Other creatures can freely enter and exit the
shack without damaging it, but if you exit the shack, the spell
ends. You can Dismiss the spell.
CREATE FOOD SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Cast 1 hour
Range 30 feet
You create enough food to feed six Medium creatures for a
day. This food is bland and unappealing, but it is nourishing.
After 1 day, if no one has eaten the food, it decays and
becomes inedible. Most Small creatures eat one-quarter as
much as a Medium creature (one-sixteenth as much for most
Tiny creatures), and most Large creatures eat 10 times as
much (100 times as much for Huge creatures and so on).
Heightened (4th) You can feed 12 Medium creatures.
Heightened (6th) You can feed 50 Medium creatures.
Heightened (8th) You can feed 200 Medium creatures.
CREATE WATER [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE WATER
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Range 0 feet
As you cup your hands, water begins to flow forth from them.
You create 2 gallons of water. If no one drinks it, it evaporates
after 1 day.
CREATION SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Cast 1 minute
Range 0 feet
Duration 1 hour
You conjure a temporary object from magical energy. It
must consist of earthen or plant-derived matter (such as
wood, paper, brick, or stone) and be 5 cubic feet or smaller.
It can’t rely on intricate artistry or complex moving parts,
never fulfills a cost or the like, and can’t be made of precious
materials or materials with a rarity of uncommon or higher.
It is obviously temporarily conjured, and thus can’t be
sold or passed off as a genuine item. The spell gains the
appropriate trait for the item created, typically earth, plant,
or wood.
Heightened (5th) The item is metal and can include common
minerals, like feldspar or quartz. The spell gains the metal
trait if used to create a metal object.
CRISIS OF FAITH [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions divine
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will
You assault the target’s faith, riddling the creature with
doubt and mental turmoil that deal 6d6 mental damage, or
6d8 mental damage if it can cast divine spells. The effects are
determined by its Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half damage.
Failure The target takes full damage; if the target can cast
divine spells, it’s stupefied 1 for 1 round.
Critical Failure The target takes double damage, is stupefied 1
for 1 round, and can’t cast divine spells for 1 round.
To many deities, casting this spell on a follower of your own
deity without significant cause is anathema.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6 (or by 2d8 if
the target is a divine spellcaster).
CURSED METAMORPHOSIS [two-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE CURSE INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Fortitude; Duration varies
You transform the target creature into a harmless
animal appropriate to the area, with effects based on its
Fortitude save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target’s body gains minor features of the
harmless animal. Its insides churn as they partially
transform, causing it to be sickened 1. When it recovers
from the sickened condition, its features revert to normal.
Failure The target transforms for 1 minute but keeps its mind.
If it spends all its actions on its turn concentrating on its
original form, it can attempt a Will save to end the effect
immediately.
Critical Failure The target is transformed into the chosen
harmless animal, body and mind, for an unlimited duration.
DARKNESS [three-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE DARKNESS MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Duration 1 minute
You create a shroud of darkness that prevents light from
penetrating or emanating within the area. Light does not
enter the area and any non-magical light sources, such as a
torch or lantern, do not emanate any light while inside the
area, even if their light radius would extend beyond the
darkness. This also suppresses magical light of your darkness
spell’s rank or lower. Light can’t pass through, so creatures in
the area can’t see outside. From outside, it appears as a globe
of pure darkness.
Heightened (4th) Even creatures with darkvision (but not
greater darkvision) can barely see through the darkness.
They treat targets seen through the darkness as concealed.
DARKVISION [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Duration 1 hour
You grant yourself supernatural sight in areas of darkness.
You gain darkvision.
Heightened (3rd) The spell’s range is touch and it targets 1
willing creature.
323
Heightened (5th) The spell’s range is touch and it targets
1 willing creature. The duration is until your next daily
preparations.
DAZE [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL NONLETHAL
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration 1 round
You push into the target’s mind and daze it with a mental jolt.
The jolt deals 1d6 mental damage, with a basic Will save. If
the target critically fails the save, it is also stunned 1.
Heightened (+2) The damage increases by 1d6.
DEAFNESS [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Fortitude
The target loses its hearing. It must attempt a Fortitude save,
and it is then temporarily immune for 1 minute.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is deafened for 1 round.
Failure The target is deafened for 10 minutes.
Critical Failure The target is deafened permanently.
DEATH SENTENCE [two-actions] SPELL 7
AUDITORY CONCENTRATE DEATH INCAPACITATION SPIRIT
Traditions divine, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense basic Will
You draw a line of universal condemnation and judge the
target unfit to exist. The target takes 11d10 spirit damage
with a basic Will save. On a failure, the creature also
believes it's been imprisoned as it awaits punishment and
becomes paralyzed for 1 round (or paralyzed for 2 rounds
on a critical failure).
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10.
DELETE [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 dataset or tech item with the
tracking trait
You delete data from a device or object with a flamboyant
magical gesture. This data might be handwritten, printed,
or digital. You delete up to 1,500 words’ worth of text,
one page of content, or one display screen worth of text
or other visual information. Non-magical writing in or on
an unattended or held object is automatically deleted.
Attempt a counteract check to delete digital or magical
writing. If you fail to delete writing that’s part of a hazard,
you trigger the hazard. This can’t be used to delete the
contents of a spellbook or similar means of storing magical
formulas or spells.
If you target an attended tech item with the tracking
trait, attempt a counteract check. On a success, the item
becomes glitching 1. A creature holding the item can Interact
to restart the software, reducing the glitching value by 1.
Heightened (7th) You can delete all the data stored locally
on a single device or book, or all the data on a device or
book related to a specific name, topic, or category.
DESICCATE [two-actions] SPELL 8
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 500 feet; Targets any number of living creatures
Defense basic Fortitude
You pull the moisture from the targets’ bodies, dealing
10d10 void damage. Creatures made of water (such as
water elementals) and plant creatures use the outcome
for one degree of success worse than the result of their
saving throw. Creatures whose bodies contain no significant
moisture (such as earth elementals) are immune to desiccate.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10.
DETECT MAGIC [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE DETECTION MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Area 30-foot emanation
You send out a pulse that registers the presence of magic.
You receive no information beyond the presence or absence
of magic. You can choose to ignore magic you’re fully aware
of, such as the magic items and ongoing spells of you and
your allies.
You detect illusion magic only if that magic’s effect
has a lower rank than the rank of your detect magic
spell. However, items that have an illusion aura but aren’t
deceptive in appearance (such as an invisibility potion)
typically are detected normally.
Heightened (3rd) You learn the rank or level of the most
powerful magical effect the spell detects, as determined
by the GM.
Heightened (4th) As 3rd rank, but you also pinpoint the
source of the highest-rank magic. Like for an imprecise
sense, you don’t learn the exact location, but can narrow
down the source to within a 5-foot cube (or the nearest if
larger than that).
DETECT POISON [two-actions] SPELL 1
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE DETECTION MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 object or creature
You detect whether a creature is venomous or poisonous,
or if an object is poison or has been poisoned. You do
not ascertain whether the target is poisonous in multiple
ways, nor do you learn the type or types of poison. Certain
substances, like lead and alcohol, are poisons and so mask
other poisons.
Heightened (2nd) You learn the number and types of poison.
DETECT SCRYING [two-actions] SPELL 4
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE DETECTION MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
324
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Area 30-foot emanation
Duration 1 hour
By reading trace auras, you detect the presence of scrying
effects in the area. If detect scrying is higher rank than a
scrying effect, you gain a glimpse of the scrying creature and
learn its approximate distance and direction.
Heightened (6th) The duration is until your next daily
preparations.
DETECT THOUGHTS [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Area 30-foot emanation
Defense Will
You sense the presence of thinking creatures around you.
You detect the presence or absence of thoughts from
conscious creatures that have Intelligence modifiers of –3 or
higher. You can choose to ignore the thoughts of creatures
you’re familiar with so they don’t interfere with your
detection of other thoughts. The spell can penetrate some
barriers, but 3 feet of dirt or wood, 1 foot of stone, 1 inch
of metal, a thin sheet of lead, or any force barrier blocks it.
Creatures who are immune to mental effects are immune to
detection by this spell.
Heightened (4th) You detect the number of thinking minds
and whether or not the creatures are telepathic. Creatures
with telepathy have louder thoughts than creatures who
don’t have telepathy and might be able to sense your
intrusion, at the GM’s discretion.
DISAPPEARANCE [two-actions] SPELL 8
ILLUSION MANIPULATE SUBTLE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 10 minutes
You shroud a creature from others’ senses. The target
becomes undetected, not just to sight but to all senses,
allowing the target to count as invisible no matter what
precise and imprecise senses an observer might have. It’s
still possible for a creature to find the target by Seeking,
looking for disturbed dust, hearing gaps in the sound
spectrum, or finding some other way to discover the
presence of an otherwise-undetectable creature.
DISCHARGE [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE ELECTRICITY MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature or object with the tech
trait
Defense Will
You ignite a sudden spark of electricity that surges into a
technological creature or object. You de-energize an item
with the tech trait or disrupt a creature with the tech trait,
with effects based on the target being a creature or object.
• Creature If your target is a creature with the tech trait, it
attempts a Will save. On a failure, the creature is glitching
1; on a critical failure, the creature is glitching 2.
• Object If you target an attended object, the creature
with the object attempts a Will save. On a success, the
object loses half of its maximum charges. On a failure,
or if you target an unattended object, the object loses
all its remaining charges.
DISGUISE MAGIC SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 item or spell effect
Duration until your next daily preparations
You alter how an item’s or spell’s magical aura appears to
effects like detect magic. You can hide the auras entirely,
have an item register as a common item of lower level, or
make a spell register as a common spell of the same or
lower rank. You can Dismiss the spell.
A caster using detect magic or read aura of a higher rank
than disguise magic can attempt to disbelieve the illusion
using the skill matching the tradition of the spell (Arcana for
arcane, Religion for divine, Occultism for occult, or Nature
for primal). Further attempts by the same caster get the
same result as the initial check to disbelieve.
Heightened (2nd) You can Cast this Spell on a creature,
disguising all items and spell effects on it.
DISINTEGRATE [two-actions] SPELL 6
ATTACK CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature, unattended object, or
force construct
Defense AC and basic Fortitude
A black tracer bolt flies toward your target, and upon
making contact intensifies into a powerful destructive
beam. Make a spell attack against the target. If you hit
an object or force construct (such as a wall of force), it’s
destroyed with no save unless it’s an artifact or similarly
powerful. A single casting can destroy no more than a 10-
foot cube of matter.
If you hit a creature, it takes 12d10 damage (no damage
type) with a basic Fortitude save. If you critically hit, the
target gets a result one degree of success worse than the
outcome of its Fortitude save. A creature reduced to 0 HP is
blasted to fine powder; its gear remains.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d10.
DISPEL MAGIC [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 spell effect or unattended magic
item
You unravel the magic behind a spell or effect. Attempt
a counteract check against the target (page 301). If you
successfully counteract a magic item, it becomes a mundane
item of its type for 10 minutes. This doesn’t change the
item’s non-magical properties. If the target is an artifact or
similar item, you automatically fail.
325
DISPELLING GLOBE [two-actions] SPELL 4
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Area 10-foot burst centered on one corner of your space
Duration 10 minutes
You create an immobile globe around yourself. It attempts
to counteract any spell from outside the globe whose area
or targets enter into it, as if the globe were a dispel magic
spell 1 rank lower than its actual spell rank. If the counteract
attempt succeeds, it prevents only the portion of the spell
that would have entered the globe (so if the spell also has
targets outside the globe, or part of its area is beyond the
globe, those targets or that area are affected normally). You
must form the sphere in an unbroken open space, so its edges
don’t pass through any creatures or objects, or the spell is lost
(though creatures can enter the globe after the spell is cast).
DIVINE IMMOLATION [two-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE FIRE MANIPULATE SANCTIFIED SPIRIT
Traditions divine
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Defense Reflex
Divine flames scour creatures within the area. Creatures
take 6d6 fire damage and 2d6 persistent fire damage. The
divine power within the flames scorches the spirit as well;
a creature takes spirit damage instead of fire damage from
divine immolation if that would be more detrimental to the
creature (as determined by the GM).
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage and no persistent
damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and persistent damage.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and double
persistent damage.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6 and persistent
damage increases by 1d6.
DIVINE INSPIRATION [two-actions] SPELL 8
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions divine
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
You infuse a target with spiritual energy, refreshing its magic.
If it prepares spells, it recovers one 6th-rank or lower spell
it previously cast today and can cast that spell again. If it
spontaneously casts spells, it recovers one of its 6th-rank or
lower spell slots. If it has a focus pool, it regains its Focus
Points, as if it had Refocused.
DIVINE LANCE [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
ATTACK CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SANCTIFIED SPIRIT
Traditions divine
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense AC
You unleash a beam of divine energy. Make a ranged spell
attack against the target’s AC. On a hit, the target takes 2d4
spirit damage (double damage on a critical hit).
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d4.
DIVINE WRATH [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SANCTIFIED SPIRIT
Traditions divine
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Defense Fortitude
You channel the fury of divinity against your foes. You deal
4d10 spirit damage to enemies in the area, depending on their
Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is sickened 1.
Critical Failure The creature takes full damage and is sickened
2; while it’s sickened, it’s also slowed 1.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10.
DIZZYING COLORS [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE ILLUSION INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Area 15-foot cone
Defense Will; Duration 1 or more rounds (see below)
You unleash a swirling multitude of colors that overwhelms
creatures based on their Will saves.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is dazzled for 1 round.
Failure The creature is stunned 1, blinded for 1 round, and
dazzled for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The creature is stunned for 1 round and
blinded for 1 minute.
DOMINATE [two-actions] SPELL 6
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration until your next daily preparations
You take command of the target, forcing it to obey you. If you
issue an obviously self-destructive order, the target doesn’t act
until you issue a new order. The effect depends on its Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is stunned 1 as it fights off your commands.
Failure You control the target. It gains the controlled condition,
but it can attempt a Will save at the end of each of its turns.
On a success, the spell ends.
Critical Failure As a failure, but the target receives a new save
only if you give it a new order that is against its nature, such
as killing its allies.
Heightened (10th) The duration is unlimited.
DOOM SCROLL [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE VISUAL
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 60 feet; Area 15-foot burst
Defense Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You magically broadcast grim news onto nearby devices, holo
projectors, screens, and other displays (including comm units
on armor). Creatures in the area who can see one or more
displays must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
326
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Success The creature is fascinated by the display.
Failure The creature is fascinated by the display and
frightened 2 (even if the fascination ends).
Critical Failure The creature is fascinated by the display,
frightened 3, and doomed 1 (even if the fascination ends).
DRAGON FORM [two-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Duration 1 minute
Calling upon powerful magic, you gain a Large dragon battle
form. When you Cast this Spell, choose one type of common
dragon or another type to which your GM allows access (see
table on page 330 for Alien Core dragons). While in this form,
you gain the dragon trait. You have hands in this battle form
and can take manipulate actions. You can Dismiss the spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless
of which battle form you choose:
• AC = 18 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
• 10 temporary Hit Points.
• Speed 40 feet, fly 100 feet. You gain any of the following
Speeds the chosen dragon has, but with the listed
amount: burrow 20 feet, climb 40 feet, swim 60 feet.
• Resistance 10 against the damage type of your Dragon
Breath (see below).
• Darkvision and imprecise scent 60 feet.
• The following unarmed melee attacks, which are the
only attacks you can Strike with. You’re trained with
them. Your attack modifier is +22, and your damage
bonus is +6. These attacks are Strength based (for the
purpose of the enfeebled condition, for example). If
your unarmed attack modifier is higher, you can use
it instead. See below for more on these attacks. Melee
[one-action] jaws, Damage 2d12 piercing plus 2d6 damage of the
same damage type as your Dragon Breath (see below);
Melee [one-action] claw (agile), Damage 3d10 slashing; Melee [one-action]
tail (reach 10 feet), Damage 3d10 bludgeoning.
• Athletics modifier of +23, unless your own is higher.
• Dragon Breath [two-actions] You exhale deadly magical energy
in an area, dealing 10d6 damage to each creature in
the area with a basic save against your spell DC. The
shape, damage type, and save type match that of your
chosen dragon’s breath. If the chosen dragon’s breath
can deal more than one type of damage, choose one
when you cast dragon form. The shape is a 30-foot
cone or a 100-foot line. Once activated, Dragon Breath
can’t be used again for 1d4 rounds. Dragon Breath
has the tradition trait matching the type of dragon
and the damage trait matching the type of damage it
deals, if applicable.
• Tradition Resistance If the dragon’s magical tradition
matches that of your dragon form spell, you gain the
listed ability. Arcane resistance 5 against damage from
spells; divine resistance 10 to spirit, vitality, and void;
occult resistance 10 to mental; primal resistance 5 to
physical damage.
Heightened (8th) Your battle form is Huge, you gain a +20-
foot status bonus to your fly Speed, and your attacks
have 10-foot reach (or 15-foot reach if they previously
had 10-foot reach). You instead gain AC = 21 + your level,
15 temporary HP, an attack modifier of +28, a damage
bonus of +12, and Athletics +28. Your Dragon Breath
deals an additional 4d6 damage.
DREAM OF HOME [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You draw on a creature’s thoughts of home and the comfort
it finds in that concept, overwhelming the creature with
wistful memories of whatever home means to it. The
target must succeed at a Will save or become fascinated
by the memories.
DREAMING POTENTIAL SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions occult
Cast 10 minutes
Range touch; Targets 1 willing sleeping creature
Duration 8 hours
You draw the target into a lucid dream where it can
explore the endless possibilities of its own potential within
the ever-changing backdrop of its dreamscape. If it sleeps
the full 8 hours uninterrupted, when it wakes, it counts
as having spent a day of downtime retraining, though it
can’t use dreaming potential for any retraining that would
require either an instructor or specialized knowledge it
can’t access within the dream.
EARTHBIND [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE EARTH MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 flying creature
Defense Fortitude; Duration varies
Using the weight of earth, you hamper a target’s flight,
with effects based on its Fortitude save. If the creature
reaches the ground safely, it doesn’t take falling damage.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target falls safely up to 120 feet.
Failure The target falls safely up to 120 feet. If it hits
the ground, it can’t Fly, levitate, or otherwise leave the
ground for 1 round.
Critical Failure The target falls safely up to 120 feet. If it
hits the ground, it can’t Fly, levitate, or otherwise leave
the ground for 1 minute.
EARTHQUAKE [two-actions] SPELL 8
CONCENTRATE EARTH MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 500 feet; Area 60-foot burst
Duration 1 round
You shake the ground, topple creatures into fissures, and
327
collapse structures. The GM might add additional effects in
certain areas. Cliffs might collapse, causing creatures to fall,
or a lake might drain as fissures open up below its surface,
leaving a morass of quicksand.
• Shaking Ground The ground is difficult terrain, and
creatures on it take a –2 circumstance penalty to
attack rolls, AC, and skill checks.
• Fissures Each creature on the ground must attempt a
Reflex save at the start of its turn to keep its footing
and avoid falling into 40-foot-deep fissures that open
beneath it. The fissures are permanent, and their sides
require successful DC 15 Athletics checks to Climb.
• Collapse Structures and ceilings might collapse. The
GM rolls a flat check for each (DC 16 for a sturdy
structure, DC 14 for an average structure and most
natural formations, DC 9 for a shoddy structure, all
adjusted higher or lower as the GM sees fit). A collapse
deals 11d6 bludgeoning damage to each creature
caught in it with a basic Reflex save. A creature falls
prone unless it critically succeeds and falls into a
fissure if it critically fails.
Heightened (10th) You create a massive earthquake that
can devastate a settlement. The range increases to half a
mile and the area to a quarter-mile burst.
ECLIPSE BURST [two-actions] SPELL 7
COLD CONCENTRATE DARKNESS MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Range 500 feet; Area 60-foot burst
Defense Reflex
A globe of freezing darkness explodes in the area, dealing
8d10 cold damage to creatures in the area, plus an additional
8d4 void damage to living creatures. Each creature in the
area must attempt a Reflex save.
If the globe overlaps with an area of magical light or
affects a creature affected by magical light, eclipse burst
attempts to counteract the light effect.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and
becomes blinded by the darkness for an unlimited
duration.
Heightened (+1) The cold damage increases by 1d10 and the
void damage against the living increases by 1d4.
ELDRITCH LANCE [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
ATTACK CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense AC
You condense a beam of mind-assaulting eldritch energy from
the dark spaces between the stars and fire it at a target. Make
a ranged spell attack roll against the target’s AC. If you hit,
you deal 2d6 mental damage. On a critical success, you deal
double damage.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6.
ELDRITCH WRATH [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Defense Will
You channel the bizarre powers that exist beyond the outer
reaches of the universe, dealing 3d12 mental damage to
each creature in the area as phantasmal claws, jaws, and
tentacles lash out at each target. Each creature in the area
must attempt a Will save. The area is difficult terrain for any
creature sickened by the effects of this spell.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is sickened 1.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is
sickened 2.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d12.
ELECTRIC ARC [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE ELECTRICITY MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 or 2 creatures
Defense basic Reflex
An arc of lightning leaps from one target to another. Each
target takes 2d4 electricity damage with a basic Reflex save.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d4.
ELECTROTETHER [two-actions] SPELL 3
ATTACK CONCENTRATE ELECTRICITY MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets up to two creatures
Defense AC
You supercharge the targets’ electromagnetism and pull them
with a tether of lightning. Make a ranged spell attack against
each target. If you attack two targets, both attacks count
toward your multiple attack penalty, but it doesn’t increase
until after both attacks. The targets each take 4d8 electricity
damage and are pulled 5 feet closer to you, or 10 feet closer
on a critical hit. If both attacks hit, you can choose to move
the creatures closer to one another instead of closer to you.
Moving a target into a barrier, creature, or obstacle causes
the target to stop before entering that space.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8.
ELEMENTAL FORM [two-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions arcane, primal
Duration 1 minute
You call upon the power of the planes to transform into a Medium
elemental battle form. When you Cast this Spell, choose a listed
element. While in this form, you gain the corresponding trait
and the elemental trait. You have hands in this battle form and
can take manipulate actions. You can Dismiss the spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of
which battle form you choose:
• AC = 19 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
328
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
• 10 temporary Hit Points.
• Darkvision.
• One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks you
can Strike with. You’re trained with them. Your attack
modifier is +18, and your damage bonus is +9. These are
Dexterity based (air, fire, or metal) or Strength based
(earth, water, or wood). If your corresponding unarmed
attack modifier is higher, you can use it instead.
• Acrobatics (air, fire, or metal) or Athletics (earth, water,
or wood) modifier of +20; ignore this change if your own
modifier is higher.
You gain specific abilities based on the element you choose:
• Air fly 80 feet, movement doesn’t trigger reactions;
Melee [one-action] gust, Damage 1d4 bludgeoning.
• Earth Speed 20 feet, burrow 20 feet; Melee [one-action] boulder,
Damage 2d10 bludgeoning.
• Fire Speed 50 feet; fire resistance 10, weakness 5 to
cold and 5 to water; Melee [one-action] tendril, Damage 1d8 fire
plus 1d4 persistent fire.
• Metal Speed 40 feet, fly 20 feet; Melee [one-action] blade
(versatile piercing), Damage 1d8 slashing plus 1d4
electricity.
• Water Speed 20 feet, swim 60 feet; fire resistance 5;
Melee [one-action] wave, Damage 1d12 bludgeoning, and you
can spend an action immediately after a hit to push the
target 5 feet with the effects of a successful Shove.
• Wood Speed 20 feet, climb 30 feet; Melee [one-action] branch,
Damage 2d10 bludgeoning.
Heightened (6th) Your battle form is Large and your attacks
have 10-foot reach. You instead gain AC = 22 + your level,
15 temporary HP, an attack modifier of +23, a damage
bonus of +13, and Acrobatics or Athletics +23.
Heightened (7th) Your battle form is Huge and your attacks
have 15-foot reach. You instead gain AC = 22 + your level,
20 temporary HP, an attack modifier of +25, a damage
bonus of +11, double the number of damage dice (including
persistent damage), and Acrobatics or Athletics +25.
EMBED MESSAGE [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 object or willing creature
Duration unlimited
You specify a trigger and a message up to 25 words long.
When the specified trigger occurs within 30 feet of the target,
illusory text of your message circles the target accompanied
by a disembodied voice. You can choose a language you know
for the text and speech, and can choose what the voice sounds
like. Once the message is completed, the spell ends.
Heightened (4th) You can add a simple sensory component to
emphasize the message, such as an odor, visual effect, or
physical sensation. This addition is obviously illusory and part
of the message, lasting only while the message is being read.
Heightened (6th) As 4th rank, but you can choose how many
times the spell repeats the message before it ends; there is
no limit to the number of repetitions.
ENERGY AEGIS SPELL 7
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast 1 minute
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration until your next daily preparations
You protect the target with a powerful, long-lasting energy
barrier. The target gains resistance 5 to acid, cold, electricity,
fire, force, sonic, vitality, and void damage.
Heightened (9th) The resistances increase to 10.
ENFEEBLE [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Fortitude; Duration varies
You sap the target’s strength, depending on its Fortitude
save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is enfeebled 1 until the start of your
next turn.
Failure The target is enfeebled 2 for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The target is enfeebled 3 for 1 minute.
ENHANCE BODY [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 1 minute
You infuse the target’s body with magic power. All its
unarmed attacks gain the tracking +1 trait, and increase the
number of weapon damage dice to two.
Heightened (6th) The unarmed attacks gain the tracking +2
trait, and increase the number of weapon damage dice
to three.
Heightened (9th) The unarmed attacks gain the tracking +3
trait, and increase the number of weapon damage dice
to four.
ENHANCE WEAPON [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 weapon that is unattended or
wielded by a willing creature
Duration 1 minute
You infuse the weapon with magic allowing it to safely operate
beyond its normal parameters. If the target is a commercial
or tactical weapon, it becomes an advanced weapon, gaining
a +1 item bonus to attack rolls and increasing the number of
weapon damage dice to two.
Heightened (6th) If the target is a commercial, tactical,
advanced, or superior weapon, it becomes an elite weapon,
gaining a +2 item bonus to attack rolls and increasing the
number of weapon damage dice to three.
Heightened (9th) The target becomes a paragon weapon,
gaining a +3 to item bonus to attack rolls and increasing
the number of weapon damage dice to four.
329
ENLARGE [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 5 minutes
Bolstered by magical power, the target grows to size Large.
Its equipment grows with it, but returns to natural size if
removed. The creature is clumsy 1. Its reach increases by 5
feet (or by 10 feet if it started out Tiny), and it gains a +2
status bonus to melee damage. This spell has no effect on a
Large or larger creature.
Heightened (4th) The creature instead grows to size Huge.
The status bonus to melee damage is +4 and the creature’s
reach increases by 10 feet (or 15 feet if the creature started
out Tiny). The spell has no effect on a Huge or larger
creature.
Heightened (6th) Choose either the 2nd-rank or 4th-rank
version of this spell and apply its effects to up to 10 willing
creatures.
ENTANGLING FLORA [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE PLANT WOOD
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet; Area all squares in a 20-foot burst
Duration 1 minute
Plants and fungi burst out or quickly grow, entangling
creatures. All surfaces in the area are difficult terrain. Each
round that a creature starts its turn in the area, it must
attempt a Reflex save. On a failure, it takes a –10-foot
circumstance penalty to its Speeds until it leaves the area,
and on a critical failure, it’s also immobilized for 1 round.
Creatures can attempt to Escape to remove these effects.
ENTHRALL [two-actions] SPELL 3
AUDITORY CONCENTRATE EMOTION MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 120 feet; Targets all creatures in range
Defense Will; Duration sustained
Your words fascinate your targets. You speak or sing without
interruption throughout the casting and duration. Targets
who notice your speech or song might give their undivided
attention; each target must attempt a Will save. The GM
might grant a circumstance bonus (to a maximum of +4) if the
target is of an opposing religion, ancestry, or political leaning,
or is otherwise unlikely to agree with what you’re saying.
Each creature that comes within range has to attempt a
save when you Sustain the spell. If you’re speaking, enthrall
gains the linguistic trait.
Critical Success The target is unaffected and notices that you
tried to use magic.
Success The target needn’t pay attention but doesn’t
notice you tried to use magic (it might notice others are
enthralled).
Failure The target is fascinated with you. It can attempt
another Will save if it witnesses actions or speech with
which it disagrees. If it succeeds, it’s no longer fascinated
and is temporarily immune for 1 hour. If the target is
subject to a hostile act, or if another creature succeeds at a
Diplomacy or Intimidation check against it, the fascination
ends immediately.
Critical Failure As failure, but the target can’t attempt a save
to end the fascination if it disagrees with you.
ENTROPY STRIKE [two-actions] SPELL 3
ACID ATTACK CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature or unattended object
Defense AC
You unleash a ray of entropy that rapidly and indiscriminately
decays matter. Make a ranged spell attack against the target’s
AC. On a hit, the target takes 5d8 void damage, or it takes
2d6 persistent acid damage and is glitching 1 if it has the tech
trait. On a critical hit, double the damage, and if the creature
has the tech trait, it’s glitching 2 and stunned 1.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1 die.
ENVIRONMENTAL ENDURANCE SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Cast 10 minutes
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration until your next daily preparations
You shield the target against dangerous temperatures.
Choose severe cold or heat. The target is protected from the
temperature you chose (but not extreme cold or heat).
Heightened (3rd) The target is protected from severe cold
and severe heat.
Heightened (5th) The target is protected from severe cold,
severe heat, extreme cold, and extreme heat.
EVENT HORIZON [two-actions] SPELL 10
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions primal
Range 500 feet; Area 50-foot burst
Defense Reflex; Duration 1 minute
ALIEN CORE DRAGONS
The dragons from Alien Core use the following
specifications for dragon form.
Dragon Tradition Speeds Dragon Breath
Abysium Arcane — Cone of poison
(Fortitude)
Akashic Occult — Cone of mental
(Will)
Cosmic Divine — Cone of spirit (Will)
Host Primal Climb Cone of piercing
(Reflex)
330
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
You unleash the power of a supermassive black hole. All
creatures in the area take 6d10 bludgeoning and 6d10 void
damage. Event horizon ignores up to 10 resistance creatures
in the area have to bludgeoning, and up to 10 resistance they
have to void. Each creature attempts a Reflex save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage and is slowed 1 until
the end of its next turn.
Failure The creature takes full damage, is slowed 3 until the
end of its next turn, and slowed 1 for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage, is slowed
3 until the end of its next turn, and slowed 2 for 1 minute.
EVERLIGHT [three-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE LIGHT MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range touch; Targets a gemstone worth 60 credits or more
Duration unlimited
The gemstone you touch glows, spreading bright light with a
color of your choice in a 20-foot radius (and dim light for the
next 20 feet). The spell ends immediately if the gemstone is
broken.
EXECUTE [two-actions] SPELL 7
CONCENTRATE DEATH MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions divine, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense basic Fortitude
You point at a creature and invoke the demise of all things. The
target takes 70 void damage with a basic Fortitude save. If the
target is undead or otherwise has void healing, the spell loses
the death and void traits and gains the vitality trait, and the
target takes 70 vitality damage with a basic Fortitude save.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 10.
EXPLOSION OF ROT [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE POISON
Traditions divine, primal
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Defense Reflex
A giant pustule swells and explodes, coating everything
around it in life-draining rot. Creatures and plants in the area
take 6d6 poison damage and must attempt a Reflex save.
Foliage and plant matter in the area damaged by the spell no
longer provide cover.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half damage.
Failure The target takes full damage and is enfeebled 1.
Critical Failure The target takes double damage, 1d6
persistent poison damage, and is enfeebled 2.
Heightened (+2) The initial damage increases by 2d6, and the
persistent damage on a critical failure increases by 1d6.
FABRICATED TRUTH [three-actions] SPELL 10
CONCENTRATE INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions occult
Range 100 feet; Targets up to 5 creatures
Defense Will; Duration varies
Choose a single statement you want the targets to believe. The
fact could be narrow, such as “a dragon is circling overhead
and wants to kill me;” wide-reaching, such as “all humanoids
are disguised abominations;” or conceptual, such as “if I don’t
live a kinder life, I’ll be punished in the afterlife.” The targets’
experiences color how they react to this “truth” and how
their behavior changes. If the statement changes what they
perceive, they treat the change as a sudden revelation.
The effect of the spell depends on the targets’ Will saves. If
a target is already affected by fabricated truth, your spell tries
to counteract it. If the counteract check fails, the outcome of
the target’s saving throw can’t be worse than a success.
Critical Success The target doesn’t believe the statement, and
it knows you tried to trick it.
Success The target doesn’t believe the statement or realize
you tried to trick it.
Failure The target believes the statement for 1 week.
Critical Failure The target believes the statement with
unlimited duration.
FALLING STARS [two-actions] SPELL 9
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 500 feet; Area four 40-foot bursts
Defense basic Reflex
You reach into the skies and call down an array of falling
stars that explode upon colliding with the ground. Choose
for the falling stars to be airbursts (sonic), asteroids (fire),
comets (cold), or plasma (electricity). The spell gains the trait
of the falling star type you chose. The four stars’ central
10-foot bursts can’t overlap. Each falling star deals 6d10
bludgeoning damage to each creature in the 10-foot burst
at the center of its area of effect before exploding, dealing
14d6 energy damage of the type you chose to each creature
in its 40-foot burst. A creature in any of the areas attempts
one basic Reflex save against the spell no matter how many
overlapping explosions it’s caught in and can take each type
of damage only once.
Heightened (+1) The bludgeoning damage increases by 1d10,
and the energy damage increases by 2d6.
FALSE VISION SPELL 5
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 10 minutes
Range touch; Area 100-foot burst
Duration until your next daily preparations
You create a false image that fools any attempts to scry on
an area. Any scrying spell sees, hears, smells, and otherwise
detects whatever you wish within the area, rather than what
is actually in the area. You can Sustain the spell each round
to change the illusion as you desire, including playing out a
complex scene. If the scrying spell is of a higher rank than
false vision, the scryer can attempt a Perception check to
disbelieve the illusion, though even if they’re successful, they
can’t learn what’s truly going on in the area.
331
FALSE VITALITY [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Duration 8 hours
You augment your flesh with the energies typically used to
manipulate the undead. You gain 10 temporary Hit Points.
Heightened (+1) The temporary Hit Points increase by 3.
FEAR [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE EMOTION FEAR MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration varies
You plant fear in the target; it must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is frightened 1.
Failure The target is frightened 2.
Critical Failure The target is frightened 3 and fleeing for 1
round.
Heightened (3rd) You can target up to five creatures.
FELINE SENSES [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MORPH
Traditions divine, primal
Duration 1 hour
Your senses improve as you gain feline eyes, ears, and
whiskers. You gain darkvision and electromagnetic scent
as an imprecise sense out to 30 feet, allowing you to detect
living and technological creatures.
Heightened (4th) The spell’s range is touch and it targets 1
willing creature.
Heightened (6th) The spell’s range is touch and it targets 1 willing
creature. The duration is until your next daily preparations.
FIELD OF LIFE [two-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE HEALING MANIPULATE VITALITY
Traditions divine, primal
Range 30 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
A field of life energy fills the area, exuding warmth and
rejuvenating those within. Each living creature that starts
its turn in the area regains 1d8 Hit Points, and any undead
creature that starts its turn in the area takes 1d8 vitality
damage.
Heightened (8th) The healing and damage increase to 1d10.
Heightened (9th) The healing and damage increase to 1d12.
FIGMENT [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE SUBTLE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained
You create a simple illusory sound or vision. A sound adds
the auditory trait to the spell and the sound can’t include
intelligible words or elaborate music. A vision adds the
visual trait, can be no larger than a 5-foot cube, and is clearly
crude and lacking detail if viewed from within 15 feet. When
you Cast or Sustain the Spell, you can attempt to Create a
Diversion with the illusion, gaining a +2 circumstance bonus
to your Deception check. If the attempt fails against a
creature, that creature disbelieves the figment.
FIRE SHIELD [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE FIRE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Duration 1 minute
You create a hovering shield made of fire. As long as the
shield persists, its heat grants you cold resistance 5 and
makes you immune to mild and severe environmental cold.
You can Raise a Shield with the fire shield as a normal shield
to gain a +1 circumstance bonus to AC. You can use the
Shield Block reaction (page 228) with the fire shield, which
has Hardness 10, is immune to fire, and has 40 HP (with no
Broken Threshold), and its Hardness is halved against effects
that have the water trait. If you Shield Block a melee attack
that’s either an unarmed attack or made by an adjacent
attacker, the attacker takes 2d6 fire damage.
Heightened (+2) The cold resistance increases by 5, the HP
increase by 10, and the fire damage increases by 1d6.
FIREBALL [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE FIRE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 500 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Defense basic Reflex
A roaring blast of fire detonates at a spot you designate,
dealing 6d6 fire damage.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
FLEET STEP [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Duration 1 minute
You gain a +30-foot status bonus to your Speed.
FLICKER [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE TELEPORTATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Duration 1 minute
You flicker quickly between your current plane and another.
You gain resistance 5 to all damage, except force. At the end
of each of your turns, you automatically teleport 10 feet in a
random direction, as determined by the GM. You can Sustain
the spell to teleport in this way.
Heightened (+2) The resistance increases by 3.
FLOATING FLAME [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE FIRE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets one 5-foot square
Defense Reflex; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You create a fire that burns without fuel and moves to your
commands. The flame deals 3d6 fire damage to each creature
in the square in which it appears, with a basic Reflex save.
332
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
When you Sustain this spell, you can levitate the flame up to
10 feet. It then deals damage to each creature whose space
it shared at any point during its flight. This uses the same
damage and save, and you roll the damage once each time
you Sustain. A given creature can take damage from floating
flame only once per round.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6.
FLY [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 5 minutes
The target can soar through the air, gaining a fly Speed equal
to its Speed or 20 feet, whichever is greater.
Heightened (7th) The duration increases to 1 hour.
FORBIDDING WARD [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 ally and 1 enemy
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You ward an ally against the attacks and hostile spells from
the target enemy. The target ally gains a +1 status bonus to
Armor Class and saving throws against the target enemy’s
attacks, spells, and other effects.
Heightened (6th) The status bonus increases to +2.
FORCE BARRAGE [one-action] TO [three-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE FORCE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
You fire a shard of solidified magic toward a creature that
you can see. It automatically hits and deals 1d4+1 force
damage. For each additional action you use when Casting the
Spell, increase the number of shards you shoot by one, to a
maximum of three shards for 3 actions. You choose the target
for each shard individually. If you shoot more than one shard
at the same target, combine the damage before applying
bonuses or penalties to damage, resistances, weaknesses,
and so forth.
Heightened (+2) You fire one additional shard with each
action you spend.
FORESIGHT [two-actions] SPELL 9
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL PREDICTION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 hour
You gain a sixth sense that warns you of danger that might
befall the target of the spell. If you choose a creature other
than yourself as the target, you create a psychic link through
which you can inform the target of danger. This link is a
mental effect. Due to the amount of information this spell
requires you to process, you can’t have more than one
foresight spell in effect at a time. Casting foresight again ends
the previous foresight. While foresight is in effect, the target
gains a +2 status bonus to initiative rolls and isn’t off-guard
against undetected creatures or when flanked. In addition,
you gain the following reaction.
Foresight [reaction] Trigger The target of foresight defends against
a hostile creature or other danger; Effect If the hostile
creature or danger forces the target to roll dice (a saving
throw, for example), the target rolls twice and uses the
higher result, and this spell gains the fortune trait. But if
the hostile creature or danger is rolling against the target
(an attack roll or skill check, for example), that hostile
creature or danger rolls twice and uses the lower result,
and this spell gains the misfortune trait.
FREEZE TIME [three-actions] SPELL 10
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
You temporarily stop time for everything but yourself,
allowing you to use several actions in what appears to
others to be no time at all. Immediately after casting
freeze time, you can use up to 9 actions in 3 sets of up to 3
actions each. After each set of actions, 1 round passes, but
for only you, effects specifically targeting or affecting you,
and effects that you create during the stoppage. All other
creatures and objects are invulnerable to your attacks,
and you can’t target or affect them with anything. Once
you have finished your actions, time begins to flow again
for the rest of the world. If you created an effect with a
duration that extends beyond freeze time’s duration, such
as wall of fire, it immediately affects others again, but it
doesn’t have any of the effects that happen only when you
first Cast the Spell.
FROSTBITE [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP COLD CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Fortitude
An orb of biting cold coalesces around your target,
freezing its body. The target takes 2d4 cold damage with
a basic Fortitude save. On a critical failure, the target also
gains weakness 1 to bludgeoning until the start of your
next turn.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d4 and the
weakness on a critical failure increases by 1.
GATE [two-actions] SPELL 10
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE TELEPORTATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 120 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You tear open a rift to another plane, creating a portal
that creatures can travel through in either direction.
This portal is vertical and circular, with a radius of 40
feet. The portal appears at a location of your choice on
the destination plane, assuming you have a clear idea of
both the destination’s location on the plane and what the
destination looks like. If you attempt to create a gate into
333
or out of the realm of a deity or another similarly powerful
being, that being can prevent the gate from forming.
GENETIC REGENERATION [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE HEALING MANIPULATE VITALITY
Traditions divine, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You imbue the target’s genetic code with a stimulating
regenerative property that begins healing its wounds. The
target temporarily gains regeneration 7, which restores 7
Hit Points to it at the start of each of its turns. While it has
regeneration, the target can’t die from taking damage, and
its dying condition can’t increase to a value that would kill
it (this stops most creatures’ dying condition at dying 3),
though if its wounded value becomes 4 or higher, it stays
unconscious until its wounds are treated. If the target takes
acid or fire damage, its regeneration deactivates until after
the end of its next turn.
Once during the spell’s duration, the creature can forgo
healing Hit Points that round to regrow one damaged or
ruined organ or reattach a severed body part by spending
an Interact action to hold the body part to the area it was
severed from.
Heightened (+1) Increase the regeneration value by 2.
GENTLE LANDING [reaction] SPELL 1
AIR CONCENTRATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Trigger A creature within range is falling.
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 falling creature
Duration 1 minute
You raise a magical updraft to arrest a fall. The target’s fall
slows to 60 feet per round, and the portion of the fall during
the spell’s duration doesn’t count when calculating falling
damage. If the target reaches the ground while the spell is
in effect, it takes no damage from the fall. The spell ends as
soon as the target lands.
GHOSTLY CARRIER [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 120 feet
Duration 1 minute
You create a Tiny, semi-corporeal figure with a form you
choose. It hovers near you for the duration. When you Cast a
Spell that has a range of touch, you can have the carrier move
within range, deliver the spell to a creature there, and return
to you. If the carrier must attempt a spell attack roll, it uses
your normal bonuses. The carrier has your AC and saves, but
it’s destroyed by any damage.
GHOST KILLER WEAPON [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 weapon that’s either unattended or
wielded by you or a willing ally
Duration 5 minutes
The target weapon becomes translucent and ghostly, and it
can affect material and incorporeal creatures and objects. It
gains the effects of the ghost killer weapon upgrade (page
273), meaning it becomes magical if it wasn’t already, is
especially effective against incorporeal creatures, and can
be wielded by a corporeal or incorporeal creature.
GLOW UP [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 1 hour
You create an illusion that causes the target to appear more
charming and genteel to observers. The spell accentuates
the target’s appearance, clothing, voice, and mannerisms
according to what an observer finds appealing. Held items
are unaffected, and any worn item removed from the
creature returns to its true appearance.
The target gains a +1 status bonus to Diplomacy checks
to Make an Impression and lets the target add its level to
Diplomacy checks if untrained. In addition, the target can
attempt a Diplomacy check to Gather Information in only
10 minutes. You can Dismiss this spell.
Heightened (+2) The bonus increases by 1, to a maximum of
+4 at 7th rank.
GOUGING CLAW [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
ATTACK CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MORPH
Traditions arcane, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Defense AC
You temporarily morph your limb into a clawed appendage.
Make a melee spell attack roll against your target’s AC. If
you hit, you deal your choice of 2d6 slashing damage or
2d6 piercing damage, plus 2 persistent bleed damage. On a
critical success, you deal double damage and double bleed
damage.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6 and the
persistent bleed damage increases by 1.
GRAVITY FIELD [three-actions] SPELL 8
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range 100 feet; Area 30-foot radius, 100-foot-tall cylinder
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
Bending the laws of the Universe to your will, you increase
the forces of gravity in an area. All flying creatures in the
area descend 40 feet. The entire area is greater difficult
terrain for Flying and Climbing creatures, and difficult
terrain for creatures on the ground. Any creature pulled to
the ground by a gravity field takes bludgeoning damage as
though it had fallen.
Gravity in the area increases by one step (for example,
zero-g becomes low gravity, low gravity becomes standard,
standard gravity becomes high gravity, and high gravity
becomes extreme gravity).
334
7
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
GREASE [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 30 feet; Area 4 contiguous 5-foot squares or Targets 1
object of 1 Bulk or less
Duration 1 minute
You conjure grease, choosing an area or target.
• Area All solid ground in the area is covered with
grease. Each creature standing on the greasy surface
must succeed at a Reflex save or an Acrobatics check
against your spell DC or fall prone. Creatures using
an action to move onto the greasy surface during the
spell’s duration must attempt either a Reflex save or an
Acrobatics check to Balance. A creature that Steps or
Crawls doesn’t have to attempt a check or save.
• Target If you Cast the Spell on an unattended object,
anyone trying to pick up the object must succeed
at an Acrobatics check or Reflex save against your
spell DC to do so. If you target an attended object,
the creature that has the object must attempt an
Acrobatics check or Reflex save. On a failure, the
holder or wielder takes a –2 circumstance penalty to
all checks that involve using the object; on a critical
failure, the holder or wielder releases the item. The
object lands in an adjacent square of the GM’s choice.
If you Cast this Spell on a worn object, the wearer
gains a +2 circumstance bonus to Fortitude saves
against attempts to grapple them.
GRIM TENDRILS [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions arcane, occult
Area 30-foot line
Defense Fortitude
Tendrils of darkness curl out from your fingertips and race
through the air. You deal 2d4 void damage and 1 persistent
bleed damage to living creatures in the line. Each living
creature in the line must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half the void damage and no
persistent bleed damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage.
Critical Failure The creature takes double void damage and
double persistent bleed damage.
Heightened (+1) The void damage increases by 2d4, and the
persistent bleed damage increases by 1.
GUIDANCE [one-action] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration until the start of your next turn
You ask for the guidance of supernatural entities, granting
the target a +1 status bonus to one attack roll, Perception
check, saving throw, or skill check the target attempts before
the duration ends. The target chooses which roll to use the
bonus on before rolling. If the target uses the bonus, the spell
335
Glow Up
ends. Either way, the target is then temporarily immune for
1 hour.
GUST OF WIND [two-actions] SPELL 1
AIR CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Area 60-foot line
Defense Fortitude; Duration until the start of your next turn
A violent wind issues forth from your palm, blowing from the
point where you are when you Cast the Spell to the line’s
opposite end. The wind extinguishes small non-magical fires,
disperses fog and mist, blows objects of light Bulk or less
around, and pushes larger objects. Large or smaller creatures
in the area must attempt a Fortitude save. Large or smaller
creatures that later move into the gust must attempt the save
on entering.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature can’t move against the wind.
Failure The creature is knocked prone. If it was flying, it takes
the effects of critical failure instead.
Critical Failure The creature is pushed 30 feet in the wind’s
direction, knocked prone, and takes 2d6 bludgeoning damage.
HALLUCINATION [two-actions] SPELL 5
ILLUSION INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE MENTAL SUBTLE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 hour
The target consistently detects one thing as another, can’t
detect something that’s there, or detects something that’s not
there, though it doesn’t alter their beliefs. You choose which
of these effects applies, and you determine the specifics of
the hallucination. For example, you could make the target see
all elves as humans, be unable to detect the presence of their
sibling, see their beloved good luck charm on their person
even when it isn’t, or see a tower in the center of town.
The target can attempt an initial Will save, with effects
below. They also receive a Will save to disbelieve the
hallucination every time they Seek or directly interact with
the hallucination. For example, the target could attempt to
disbelieve the hallucination each time they interacted with
an elf, bumped into their sibling accidentally, tried to check
their charm, or studied the tower. The target can attempt
to disbelieve with a large circumstance bonus in situations
determined by the GM, such as if the target attempted to
climb the nonexistent tower.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature perceives what you chose until it
disbelieves, but it knows what the hallucination is.
Failure The creature perceives what you chose until it
disbelieves.
Critical Failure The creature perceives what you chose until
it disbelieves, and it trusts its false senses, taking a –4
circumstance penalty to saves to disbelieve.
Heightened (6th) Choose to either target up to 10 creatures
or change the spell’s duration to until your next daily
preparations.
Heightened (8th) Choose to either target any number of
creatures or change the spell’s duration to unlimited.
HARM [one-action] TO [three-actions] SPELL 1
MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions divine
Range varies; Targets 1 living creature or 1 willing undead
creature
You channel void energy to harm the living or heal the undead.
If the target is a living creature, you deal 1d8 void damage to
it, and it gets a basic Fortitude save. If the target is a willing
undead creature, you restore that amount of Hit Points.
The number of actions you spend when Casting this Spell
determines its targets, range, area, and other parameters.
[one-action] The spell has a range of touch.
[two-actions] (concentrate) The spell has a range of 30 feet. If you’re
healing an undead creature, increase the Hit Points
restored by 8.
[three-actions] (concentrate) You disperse void energy in a 30-foot
emanation. This targets all living and undead creatures in
the area.
Heightened (+1) The amount of healing or damage increases
by 1d8, and the extra healing for the 2-action version
increases by 8.
HASTE [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 minute
Magic empowers the target to act faster. It gains the
quickened condition and can use the extra action each round
for only Strike and Stride actions.
Heightened (7th) You can target up to 6 creatures.
HEAL [one-action] TO [three-actions] SPELL 1
HEALING MANIPULATE VITALITY
Traditions divine, primal
Range varies; Targets 1 willing living creature or 1 undead
creature
You channel vital energy to heal the living or damage
the undead. If the target is a willing living creature, you
restore 1d8 Hit Points. If the target is undead, you deal
that amount of vitality damage to it, and it gets a basic
Fortitude save. The number of actions you spend when
Casting this Spell determines its targets, range, area, and
other parameters.
[one-action] The spell has a range of touch.
[two-actions] (concentrate) The spell has a range of 30 feet. If you’re
healing a living creature, increase the Hit Points restored
by 8.
[three-actions] (concentrate) You disperse vital energy in a 30-foot
emanation. This targets all living and undead creatures in
the burst.
Heightened (+1) The amount of healing or damage increases
by 1d8, and the extra healing for the 2-action version
increases by 8.
336
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
HEROISM [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 10 minutes
You unlock the target’s inner heroism, granting it a +1 status
bonus to attack rolls, Perception checks, saving throws, and
skill checks.
Heightened (6th) The status bonus increases to +2.
Heightened (9th) The status bonus increases to +3.
HOLOGRAPHIC MEMORY [two-actions] SPELL 3
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 creature or corpse
Defense Will
You reach into the target’s mind, extract a specific memory
you have some awareness of, and project it into a hologram.
Alternatively, when casting this spell, you can choose to pull
a random memory left to the GM’s discretion. The holographic
memory can be no longer than 5 minutes; if the extracted
memory is longer than this, the hologram simply ends at
that point. The hologram includes audio as well as visual
components, but it doesn’t contain haptic, olfactory, or other
components. The hologram typically plays a memory that
takes place in a single scene, though it can cut to multiple
scenes if they’re accurate to the memory and its length
allows. The hologram plays the memory exactly as the target
experienced it and from the target’s perspective, so it often
lacks context.
This spell can target any living, unconscious, or deceased
sentient creature with an Intelligence modifier of –3 or
higher. If the target is deceased, it can’t have been dead
for longer than 1 week, or this spell fails; once a corpse has
been subjected to holographic memory by any caster, any
subsequent castings of holographic memory fail.
If the target is unwilling to share this memory, it can
attempt a Will save to resist this spell.
HOLY LIGHT [two-actions] SPELL 3
ATTACK CONCENTRATE FIRE HOLY LIGHT MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, primal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense AC
You shine a blazing ray of light tinged with holy energy.
Make a ranged spell attack. The ray deals 5d6 fire damage. If
the target has the unholy trait, you deal an extra 5d6 spirit
damage.
Critical Success The target takes double damage.
Success The target takes full damage.
If the light passes through an area of magical darkness or
targets a creature affected by magical darkness, holy light
attempts to counteract the darkness. If you need to determine
whether the light passes through an area of darkness, draw a
line between yourself and the spell’s target.
Heightened (+1) The fire damage increases by 2d6, and the
spirit damage against unholy creatures increases by 2d6.
HONEYED WORDS [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions occult
Duration 10 minutes
Falsehoods pass your lips as smoothly as silk. You gain a
+4 status bonus to Deception checks to Lie and against
Perception checks to discern if you are telling the truth, and
you add your level even if untrained. If the implausibility of
your lies prompts a circumstance penalty or a DC increase,
reduce that penalty by half or increase it by half.
HOWL [two-actions] SPELL 7
AUDITORY CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL SONIC
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Area 30-foot emanation
Defense Will
You let out a powerful ululation full of psychic resonance that
compels others who hear it to join in. You deal 7d12 sonic
damage and 1d8 persistent mental damage to other creatures
who can hear within the area. Targets must attempt a Will
save. The persistent mental damage a creature takes from
this spell increases by 1d8 if at least one other creature is
howling. A howling creature can’t use auditory actions or
cast spells except for those with the subtle trait for 1 round.
Calculate the persistent damage after all creatures attempt
their saves.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half damage and no persistent
mental damage.
Failure The target takes full damage, persistent mental
damage, and is compelled to howl as long as it takes
persistent mental damage.
Critical Failure As failure, but the target takes double the
initial and persistent damage.
HOWLING BLIZZARD [two-actions] TO [three-actions] SPELL 5
AIR COLD CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Area varies
Defense basic Reflex
Freezing winds extend from your hands, pushing away from
you with great force. If you Cast this Spell with 2 actions, it
has an area of a 60-foot cone; if you Cast this Spell with 3
actions, it has a range of 500 feet and an area of a 30-foot
burst. Each creature in the area takes 10d6 cold damage
with a basic Reflex save. Snowdrifts and icy gales fill the
area until the start of your next turn, making the area
difficult terrain.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
HUMANOID FORM [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Duration 10 minutes
You transform your appearance to that of a Small or Medium
humanoid, such as a dwarf, elf, goblin, halfling, human, or
orc. You gain the humanoid trait in addition to your other
337
traits while in this form, as well as any trait related to
the creature’s kind (such as goblin or human). If this
transformation reduces your size, it reduces your reach
accordingly (typically to 5 feet). This transformation doesn’t
change your statistics in any way, and you don’t gain any
special abilities of the humanoid form you assume. You
can still wear and use your gear, which changes size (if
necessary) to match your new form. If items leave your
person, they return to their usual size.
Humanoid form grants you a +4 status bonus to Deception
checks to pass as a generic member of the chosen ancestry,
and you add your level even if you’re untrained, but you
can’t make yourself look like a specific person. If you want to
Impersonate an individual, you still need to create a disguise,
though the GM won’t factor in the difference in ancestry
when determining the DC of your Deception check. You can
Dismiss this spell.
Heightened (3rd) You gain darkvision or low-light vision if the
form you assume has that ability.
Heightened (5th) You can take on the appearance of a Large
humanoid. If this increases your size, you gain the effects
of the enlarge spell.
HYDRAULIC PUSH [two-actions] SPELL 1
ATTACK CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE WATER
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature or unattended object
Defense AC
You call forth a powerful blast of pressurized water that
bludgeons the target and knocks it back. Make a ranged spell
attack roll.
Critical Success The target takes 6d6 bludgeoning damage
and is knocked back 10 feet.
Success The target takes 3d6 bludgeoning damage and is
knocked back 5 feet.
Heightened (+1) The bludgeoning damage increases by 2d6.
HYDRAULIC TORRENT [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE WATER
Traditions primal
Area 60-foot line
Defense Fortitude
A swirling torrent of water manifests along a straight line,
battering creatures and unattended objects in its path and
possibly pushing them away from you. The torrent deals 8d6
bludgeoning damage. Each creature in the area must attempt
a basic Fortitude save; unattended objects automatically fail.
Creatures and objects that fail are also knocked back 5 feet
(10 feet on a critical failure).
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
HYPERCOGNITION [one-action] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE
Traditions occult
You rapidly catalog and collate information relevant to
your current situation. You can instantly use up to 6 Recall
Knowledge actions as part of Casting this Spell. For these
actions, you can’t use any special abilities, reactions, or free
actions that trigger when you Recall Knowledge.
HYPNOTIZE [two-actions] SPELL 3
ILLUSION MANIPULATE SUBTLE VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot burst
Defense Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You create a cloud of mesmerizing patterns and colors that
hovers in the air. Creatures are dazzled while inside the cloud.
In addition, a creature must attempt a Will saving throw if it
is inside the cloud when you cast it, when it enters the cloud,
when it ends its turn within the cloud, or if it uses a Seek or
Interact action on the cloud. A creature currently fascinated
by hypnotize doesn’t attempt new saves.
Success The target is unaffected.
Failure The target is fascinated by the cloud.
Critical Failure The target is fascinated by the cloud. While it
remains fascinated, it can’t use reactions.
IGNITION [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
ATTACK CANTRIP CONCENTRATE FIRE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense AC
You snap your fingers and point at a target, which begins
to smolder. Make a spell attack roll against the target’s AC,
dealing 2d4 fire damage on a hit. If the target is within your
melee reach, you can choose to make a melee spell attack
with the flame instead of a ranged spell attack, which
increases all the spell’s damage dice to d6s.
Critical Success The target takes double damage and 1d4
persistent fire damage.
Success The target takes full damage.
Heightened (+1) The initial damage increases by 1d4 and the
persistent fire damage on a critical hit increases by 1d4.
ILL OMEN [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE CURSE MANIPULATE MISFORTUNE
Traditions occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration 1 round
The target is struck with misfortune, which throws it off
balance. The target must attempt a Will save.
Success The target is unaffected.
Failure The first time during the duration that the target
attempts an attack roll or skill check, it must roll twice and
use the worse result.
Critical Failure Every time during the duration that the target
attempts an attack roll or skill check, it must roll twice and
use the worse result.
ILLUSORY CREATURE [two-actions] SPELL 2
AUDITORY CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE OLFACTORY VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 500 feet
Duration sustained
338
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
You create an illusory image of a Large or smaller creature. It
generates the appropriate sounds, smells, and feels believable
to the touch. If you and the image are ever farther than 500
feet apart, the spell ends.
The image can’t speak, but you can use your actions to
speak through the creature, with the spell disguising your
voice as appropriate. You might need to attempt a Deception
or Performance check to mimic the creature, as determined
by the GM. This is especially likely if you’re trying to imitate a
specific person and engage with someone that person knows.
In combat, the illusion can use 2 actions per turn, which
it uses when you Sustain the spell. It uses your spell attack
modifier for attack rolls and your spell DC for its AC. Its
saving throw modifiers are equal to your spell DC – 10. It’s
substantial enough that it can flank other creatures. If the
image is hit by an attack or fails a save, the spell ends.
The illusion can cause damage by making the target believe
the illusion’s attacks are real, but it cannot otherwise directly
affect the physical world. If the illusory creature hits with a
Strike, the target takes 3d4 mental damage. The illusion’s
Strikes are nonlethal. If the damage doesn’t correspond to
the image of the monster—for example, if an illusory Large
dragon deals only 5 damage—the GM might allow the target
to attempt an immediate Perception check to disbelieve the
spell. Any relevant resistances and weaknesses apply if the
target thinks they do, as judged by the GM. For example, if
the illusion wields a doshko and attacks a creature resistant to
piercing damage, the creature would take less mental damage.
However, illusory damage does not deactivate regeneration or
trigger other effects that require a certain damage type. The
GM should track illusory damage dealt by the illusion.
Any creature that touches the image or uses the Seek
action to examine it can attempt to disbelieve your illusion.
When a creature disbelieves the illusion, it recovers from half
the damage it had taken from it (if any) and doesn’t take any
further damage from it.
Heightened (+1) The damage of the image’s Strikes increases
by 1d4, and the maximum size of creature you can create
increases by one (to a maximum of Gargantuan).
ILLUSORY DISGUISE [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 1 hour
You create an illusion that causes the target to appear as
another creature of the same body shape, and with roughly
similar height (within 6 inches) and weight (within 50
pounds). The disguise is typically good enough to hide their
identity, but not to impersonate a specific individual. The spell
changes their appearance and voice, but not mannerisms.
You can change the appearance of its clothing and worn
items, such as making its armor look like a dress. Held items
are unaffected, and any worn item removed from the creature
returns to its true appearance.
Casting illusory disguise counts as setting up a disguise
for the Impersonate use of Deception; it ignores any
circumstance penalties the target might take for disguising
itself as a dissimilar creature, gives a +4 status bonus to
Deception checks to prevent others from seeing through the
disguise, and lets the target add its level to such Deception
checks even if untrained. You can Dismiss this spell.
Heightened (3rd) The target can appear as any creature of
the same size, even a specific individual. You must have
seen an individual to replicate its appearance, and must
have heard its voice to replicate its voice.
Heightened (4th) You can target up to 10 willing creatures. If
you target multiple creatures, you can choose a different
disguise for each target, but none can impersonate
a specific individual. You can Dismiss each disguise
individually or all collectively.
Heightened (7th) As 4th, but you can choose disguises that
impersonate specific individuals. You must have seen an
individual to replicate its appearance, and must have heard
its voice to replicate its voice.
ILLUSORY OBJECT [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 500 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Duration 10 minutes
You create an illusory visual image of a stationary object.
The entire image must fit within the spell’s area. The object
appears to animate naturally, but it doesn’t make sounds or
generate smells. For example, water would appear to pour
down an illusory waterfall, but it would be silent.
Any creature that touches the image or uses the Seek
action to examine it can attempt to disbelieve your illusion.
Heightened (2nd) Your image makes appropriate sounds,
generates normal smells, and feels right to the touch. The
spell gains the auditory and olfactory traits. The duration
increases to 1 hour.
Heightened (5th) As the 2nd-rank version, but the duration
is unlimited.
ILLUSORY SCENE SPELL 5
AUDITORY CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE OLFACTORY VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 10 minutes
Range 500 feet; Area 30-foot burst
Duration 1 hour
You craft an imaginary scene that includes up to 10 discrete
creatures or objects of various sizes, all of which must be
within the spell’s area. These elements generate appropriate
sounds and smells, and they feel right to the touch. Elements
of an illusory scene are incapable of speech. Unlike with the
illusory creature spell, creatures in your scene lack combat
abilities and statistics. Your scene doesn’t include changes to
the environment around it, though you can place your scene
within the illusory environment of other illusion spells.
When you create the scene, you can choose to have
it be static or follow a program. Though a static scene is
stationary, it includes basic natural movement. For example,
wind blowing on an illusory piece of paper would rustle it.
339
A program can be up to 1 minute long and repeats when
finished. For instance, you could create a scene of two orcs
fighting each other, and the fight would go the same way
for each repetition. If you create a loop, the two fighters
end up in the same place at the start of the scene and at
the end of it, but you can smooth the program so it’s hard to
tell when the loop ends and begins. Anyone observing the
scene for more than a few minutes almost always notices it
looping. You’re unable to alter the program after you create
the illusion.
Any creature that touches any part of the image or uses
the Seek action to examine it can attempt to disbelieve
your illusion. If they interact with a portion of the illusion,
they disbelieve only that portion. They disbelieve the entire
scene only on a critical success.
Heightened (6th) Creatures or objects in your scene can
speak. You must speak the specific lines for each actor
when creating your program. The spell disguises your
voice for each actor.
Heightened (8th) As the 6th-rank version, and the duration
is unlimited.
IMPALING SPIKE [two-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE METAL
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Reflex; Duration 1 minute
You conjure a spike that thrusts up from the earth beneath
a target creature, potentially impaling it. The spike is made
of cold iron and deals 8d6 piercing damage. The target must
attempt a Reflex save.
Critical Success The target dodges the spike and is
unaffected.
Success The target is struck by the spike and takes half
damage.
Failure The target is impaled through a leg or another nonvital
body part. The creature takes full damage and, if
it’s standing on solid ground, becomes immobilized. It
can attempt to Escape (the DC is your spell DC). While it
remains impaled, it takes damage from any weakness to
cold iron it has at the end of each of its turns.
Critical Failure As failure, but the creature is impaled
through a vital organ or its center of mass, taking double
damage, and it is off-guard as long as it’s impaled.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
IMPLANT DATA [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 computer
Duration 1 day
You reprogram a computer or device to display a chosen
piece of data when accessed. You can implant up to one
piece of data per spell rank. A piece of data can be a simple
fact, such as a creature or object’s location or physical
description; an image of a creature or object; or a simple
statement of no more than 300 characters. When the target
computer or device is accessed, this implanted data is the
first data the accessing creature gains, regardless of what
data the creature is looking for. Implanted data doesn’t
prevent a creature from accessing other information stored
on a device, change how the device functions, or otherwise
inhibit the device from functioning. If this spell’s duration
ends before a creature accesses the implanted data, the
information vanishes.
Heightened (3rd) The duration is one year.
Heightened (6th) The duration is unlimited.
IMPLOSION [two-actions] SPELL 9
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 corporeal creature
Defense basic Fortitude; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You crush the target by causing it to collapse in on itself,
dealing 75 damage. The first time each round you Sustain
the spell, you must choose a new target to be subject to the
same effect; the same creature can never be targeted more
than once with a single casting of this spell. You also can’t
affect more than one creature per turn with implosion. You
can’t target a creature that’s incorporeal, gaseous, or liquid,
or otherwise lacking a solid form.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 10.
INDESTRUCTIBILITY [two-actions] SPELL 10
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Duration until the start of your next turn
You sever yourself from cause and effect. For the duration
of the spell, you are immune to any effect or damage that
would harm you, excluding effects caused by artifacts, deific
power, and similarly powerful sources. You can selectively
allow yourself to be affected by anything you’re willing to
have affect you.
INFUSE VITALITY [one-action] TO [three-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE VITALITY
Traditions divine
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 to 3 willing creatures
Duration 1 minute
You empower attacks with vital energy. The number of
targets is equal to the number of actions you spent casting
this spell. Each target’s unarmed and weapon Strikes deal an
extra 1d4 vitality damage. (This damage typically damages
only undead, as explained on page 401). If you have the holy
trait, you can add that trait to this spell and to the Strikes
affected by the spell.
Heightened (3rd) The damage increases to 2d4 damage.
Heightened (5th) The damage increases to 3d4 damage.
INJECT NANOBOTS [two-actions] SPELL 2
ACID ATTACK CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Defense AC
340
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
You inject magical nanobots into a creature. Make a melee
spell attack roll. On a hit, the target takes 4d6 acid damage.
On a critical hit, the target takes double damage and becomes
confused for 1 round as nanobots swarm through the target’s
biological or mechanical systems.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
INJURY ECHO [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will
You manifest an injury from the future or past to harm a
creature in the present. Choose bludgeoning, piercing, or
slashing damage. The target takes 1d8 of the selected damage
type with a basic Will save. If the target fails its save and
then takes the same type of damage before the end of your
next turn, it takes an additional 1d4 persistent bleed damage.
Heightened (+2) The initial damage increases by 1d8, and the
persistent damage on a failure increases by 1d4.
INSECT FORM [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions arcane, primal
Duration 1 minute
You envision a simple bug and transform into a Medium
animal battle form. When you Cast this Spell, choose a listed
battle form. You can decide the specific type of animal (such
as a ladybug or scarab for beetle), but this has no effect on
the form’s Size or statistics. While in this form, you gain the
animal trait. You can Dismiss this spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of
which battle form you choose:
• AC = 18 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
• 10 temporary Hit Points.
• Low-light vision.
• One or more attacks specific to the battle form you
choose, which are the only attacks you can Strike with.
You’re trained with them. Your attack modifier is +13, and
your damage bonus is +2. These attacks are Strength
based (for the purpose of the enfeebled condition). If
your unarmed attack modifier is higher, you can use it
instead.
• Athletics modifier of +13, unless your own is higher.
You gain specific abilities based on the form you choose:
• Ant Speed 30 feet, climb 30 feet; Melee [one-action] mandibles,
Damage 2d6 bludgeoning.
• Beetle Speed 25 feet; Melee [one-action] mandibles, Damage
2d10 bludgeoning.
• Centipede Speed 25 feet, climb 25 feet; darkvision;
Melee [one-action] mandibles, Damage 1d8 piercing plus 1d4
persistent poison.
• Mantis Speed 40 feet; imprecise scent 30 feet; Melee [one-action]
foreleg, Damage 2d8 piercing.
• Scorpion Speed 40 feet; darkvision, imprecise
tremorsense 60 feet; Melee [one-action] stinger, Damage 1d8
piercing plus 1d4 persistent poison; Melee [one-action] pincer
(agile), Damage 1d6 bludgeoning.
• Spider Speed 25 feet, climb 25 feet; darkvision; Melee [one-action]
fangs, Damage 1d6 piercing plus 1d4 persistent poison;
Ranged [one-action] web (range increment 20 feet), Damage
immobilizes the target for 1 round or until it Escapes.
Heightened (4th) Your battle form is Large, and your attacks
have 10-foot reach. You instead gain 15 temporary HP,
attack modifier +16, damage bonus +6, and Athletics +16.
Heightened (5th) Your battle form is Huge, and your attacks
have 15-foot reach. You instead gain 20 temporary HP,
attack modifier +18, damage bonus +2 and double damage
dice (including persistent damage), and Athletics +20.
INSTANT VIRUS [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane
Range touch; Targets 1 creature with the tech trait
Defense Fortitude
Your touch installs a dangerous self-replicating virus that
disrupts a technological creature’s programming. The target
must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is glitching 1.
Failure The target is glitching 1 and stunned 1.
Critical Failure The target is glitching 2 and stunned 2.
INTERPLANAR TELEPORT SPELL 7
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE TELEPORTATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast 10 minutes; Requirements You have a planar key for the
destination plane, used as a locus
Range 5 feet; Targets up to 8 willing creatures
You and your allies traverse the barriers between planes of
existence. The targets move to another plane, such as the
Plane of Fire, the Netherworld, or the Outer Rifts. You must
know the destination plane exists and use a magic planar
key created from material from that plane as a locus for
the spell. While the planar keys for most prominent planes
are uncommon, just like the spell interplanar teleport, more
obscure planes and demiplanes often have rare or possibly
even unique planar keys.
The spell is highly imprecise, and you appear 1d20×25
miles from the last place one of the targets (of your choice)
was located the last time that target traveled to the plane.
If it’s the first time traveling to a particular plane for all
targets, you appear at a random location on the plane.
Interplanar teleport doesn’t provide a means of return travel,
though casting interplanar teleport again allows you to
return to your previous plane unless there are extenuating
circumstances.
INVISIBILITY [two-actions] SPELL 2
ILLUSION MANIPULATE SUBTLE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 10 minutes
341
Illusions bend light around the target, rendering it
invisible. This makes it undetected to all creatures, though
the creatures can attempt to find the target, making it
hidden to them instead (page 425). If the target uses a
hostile action, the spell ends after that hostile action is
completed.
Heightened (4th) The spell lasts 1 minute, but it doesn’t end if
the target uses a hostile action.
IRRADIATE [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE RADIATION
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Defense Fortitude; Duration 1 hour
You rapidly destabilize and decay the atoms around you to
create a burst of magically enhanced mild radiation. Creatures
in the area must attempt a Fortitude save against mild
radiation sickness (GM Core 90). This magical radiation uses
your spell DC in place of the radiation’s normal Fortitude DC,
has an immediate onset, and the interval between each stage
is 1 round. Technology doesn’t gain the glitching condition
from the radiation created by this spell.
Heightened (5th) The radiation increases to severe.
Heightened (7th) The radiation increases to extreme.
Heightened (9th) The radiation increases to incredible.
JUMP [one-action] SPELL 1
MANIPULATE MOVE
Traditions arcane, primal
Your legs surge with strength, ready to leap high and far. You
jump 30 feet in any direction without touching the ground.
You must land on a space of solid ground within 30 feet of
you, or else you fall after using your next action.
Heightened (3rd) The range becomes touch, the target
changes to one touched creature, and the duration
becomes 1 minute, allowing the target to jump as described
whenever it takes the Leap action.
KNOCK [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 door, lock, or container
Duration 1 minute
You make the target easier to open. Knock grants a +4 status
bonus to any creature that tries to open the target door, lock,
or container with an Athletics or a Thievery check. You can
attempt a Thievery check to open the target as part of casting
knock, and you add your level even if you’re untrained.
Knock counteracts lock.
LAUGHING FIT [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE EMOTION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 living creature
Defense Will; Duration sustained
The target is overtaken with uncontrollable laughter. It must
attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is plagued with uncontrollable laugher. It
can’t use reactions.
Failure The target is slowed 1 and can’t use reactions.
Critical Failure The target falls prone and can’t use actions or
reactions for 1 round. It then takes the effects of a failure.
LEVITATE [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 unattended object or willing creature
Duration 5 minutes
You defy gravity and levitate the target 5 feet off the ground.
You can Sustain the spell to move the target up or down
10 feet. A creature floating in the air from levitate takes a
–2 circumstance penalty to attack rolls. A floating creature
can spend an Interact action to stabilize itself and negate
this penalty for the remainder of its turn. If the target is
adjacent to a fixed object or terrain of suitable stability, it
can move across the surface by climbing (if the surface is
vertical, like a wall) or crawling (if the surface is horizontal,
such as a ceiling). The GM determines which surfaces can be
climbed or crawled across.
LIFE SEAL [reaction] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE
Traditions divine, primal
Trigger A creature within range enters an environment that
would be harmful to it.
Range 60 feet; Targets the triggering creature
Duration 1 minute
A shimmering bubble envelops the target’s body, allowing
it to breathe normally in a vacuum or other unsafe
environment and protecting it from severe temperatures
and radiation.
Heightened (7th) You can target up to 5 additional creatures
to gain protection against the environment the triggering
creature entered. The spell lasts for 8 hours and also
protects against extreme temperatures and radiation.
Heightened (10th) You can target up to 10 additional
creatures to gain protection against the environment the
triggering creature entered. The spell lasts until your next
daily preparations and also protects against incredible
temperatures and radiation.
LIGHT [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE LIGHT MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range 120 feet
Duration until your next daily preparations
You create an orb of light that sheds bright light in a 20-
foot radius (and dim light for the next 20 feet) in a color you
choose. If you create the light in the same space as a willing
creature, you can attach the light to the creature, causing it to
float near that creature as it moves. You can Sustain the spell
to move the light up to 60 feet; you can attach or detach it
from a creature as part of this movement.
342
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
You can Dismiss the spell. If you Cast the Spell while you
already have four light spells active, you must choose one of
the existing spells to end.
Heightened (4th) The orb sheds light in a 60-foot radius (and
dim light for the next 60 feet).
LIGHTNING BOLT [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE ELECTRICITY MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Area 120-foot line
Defense basic Reflex
A bolt of lightning strikes outward from your hand, dealing
4d12 electricity damage with a basic Reflex save.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d12.
LOCATE SPELL 3
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE DETECTION MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast 10 minutes
Range 500 feet; Targets 1 specific object or type of object
Duration sustained
You learn the direction to the target (if you picked a specific
object, such as “my mother’s sword”) or the nearest target (if
you picked a type of object, such as “swords”). If the target
is a specific object, you must have observed it directly with
your own senses. If it’s a type of object, you still need to
have an accurate mental image of the type of object. If
there’s lead or running water between you and the target,
this spell can’t locate the object. This means you might find
a type of object farther away if the nearest one is behind
lead or running water.
Heightened (5th) You can target a specific creature or
ancestry instead of an object, but you must have met or
seen up close the creature or ancestry you want to target.
LOCK [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 lock, or a door or container with a
latch
Duration until your next daily preparations
The target’s latch mechanism clinks shut, held fast by unseen
magical wards. When you magically lock a target, you set an
Athletics and Thievery DC to open it equal to your spell DC or
the base lock DC with a +4 status bonus, whichever is higher.
Any key or combination that once opened a lock affected by
this spell does not do so for the duration of the spell, though
the key or combination does grant a +4 circumstance bonus
to checks to open the door.
If the target is opened, the spell ends. Assuming the target
is not barred or locked in some additional way, you can unlock
and open it with an Interact action during which you touch
the target. This does not end the spell. You can Dismiss this
spell at any time and from any distance.
Heightened (2nd) The duration is unlimited, but you
must expend 60 credits worth of precious metals as an
additional cost.
LOGIC BOMB [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 computer or item with the tech
trait
Duration until the next time you make your daily
preparations
You implant a hazard containing a mind-blowing amount
of information into the target. The hazard has a Stealth
and Disable DC equal to your spell DC and requires one
successful Computers check to disable. The first time
a creature unsuccessfully attempts to access, destroy,
or otherwise manipulate the target (such as using the
Computers skill, failing to hit with a Strike, or otherwise),
logic bomb detonates, and the creature takes 6d6 mental
damage with a basic Will save. The spell ends when it’s
triggered or the duration ends, whichever comes first.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
MAGIC PASSAGE [two-actions] SPELL 5
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE EARTH MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range touch; Area 5-foot-wide, 10-foot-tall, 10-foot-deep
section of wooden, plaster, or stone wall
Duration 1 hour
You create a visible tunnel through the wall in the chosen
area, replacing the area with empty space. If the wall is
thicker than 10 feet, the tunnel ends 10 feet in. Even a small
layer of metal in the wall prevents this spell from functioning.
This spell doesn’t reduce the integrity of the structure. When
the spell ends, anyone inside the tunnel is shunted to the
nearest exit.
Heightened (7th) The tunnel can be up to 20 feet deep.
The areas of the wall that contain your tunnel’s entrance
appear completely normal (unless viewed with truesight or
a similar effect), despite the tunnel’s existence. The tunnel’s
entrance functions as a solid wall, but you can specify a
password or a trigger (page 301), allowing creatures to
enter freely.
MANIFESTATION [three-actions] SPELL 10
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
You spin secrets from the fundaments of magic, shaping them
into a power with nearly unlimited potential. You duplicate
a spell of 9th rank or lower of the tradition from which you
cast manifestation, or a spell of 7th rank or lower from any
tradition. Though you can normally choose only spells that
are common or to which you have access, the GM might allow
broader options.
MASK OF TERROR [two-actions] SPELL 7
CONCENTRATE EMOTION FEAR ILLUSION MANIPULATE MENTAL VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 minute
The target appears to be a gruesome and terrifying creature.
343
The effect is unique to each observer, so a human viewing the
target might see a demon with bloody fangs, but a demon
observing the target might see a glowing angelic visage.
When any creature attempts a hostile action against the
target, the creature must attempt a Will save. It is then
temporarily immune until the end of its next turn.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature becomes frightened 2 before using its
action.
Critical Failure The creature becomes frightened 2, and its
action fails and is wasted.
Heightened (8th) You can target up to 5 creatures. If a
creature uses a hostile action or reaction that affects
multiple targets simultaneously, it needs to attempt only
one save against mask of terror.
MASSACRE [two-actions] SPELL 9
CONCENTRATE DEATH MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Area 60-foot line
Defense Fortitude
You unleash a wave of death to snuff out the life force of
those in its path. Each living creature of 17th level or lower
in the line must attempt a Fortitude save. If the damage
from massacre reduces a creature to 0 Hit Points, that
creature dies instantly. If massacre doesn’t kill even a single
creature, the void energy hungrily turns backward toward
you, dealing an additional 30 void damage to every living
creature in the line (even those above 17th level) and 30
void damage to you.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes 9d6 void damage.
Failure The creature takes 100 void damage.
Critical Failure The creature dies.
Heightened (10th) The spell can affect living creatures up to
19th level. Increase the damage to 10d6 on a success, and
to 115 on a failure.
MEASURE [one-action] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Area 200-foot emanation
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You learn the approximate measurements (length, width,
depth, height, and weight) of creatures and objects you can
observe in the area. If an object or creature extends out of
the area, you learn only the measurements within the area,
but nothing about what you can’t observe. For example, you
can’t determine the thickness or weight of a wall you can
observe only one side of, or the depth of water that extends
beyond the spell’s range. Each time you Sustain the spell,
you learn the exact measurements of one creature or object
in the area, including imprecisions or anomalies that might
indicate structural weakness. Magically altered targets give
you information that reflects what you observe rather than
accurate measurements.
Heightened (+1) Extend the range of measure by 100 feet.
MENDING SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast 10 minutes
Range touch; Targets non-magical object of light Bulk or less
You repair the target item. You restore 5 Hit Points per spell
rank to the target, potentially removing the broken condition
if this repairs it past the item’s Broken Threshold. You can’t
replace lost pieces or repair an object that’s been completely
destroyed.
Heightened (2nd) You can target a non-magical object of 1
Bulk or less.
Heightened (3rd) You can target a non-magical object of 2
Bulk or less, or a magical object of 1 Bulk or less.
MESSAGE [one-action] CANTRIP 1
AUDITORY CANTRIP CONCENTRATE ILLUSION LINGUISTIC MENTAL SUBTLE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration see below
You mouth words quietly, but instead of coming out of
your mouth, they’re transferred directly to the ears of the
target. While others can’t hear your words any better than
if you normally mouthed them, the target can hear your
words as if they were standing next to you. The target
can give a brief response as a reaction, or as a free action
on their next turn if they wish, but they must be able to
see you and be within range to do so. If they respond,
their response is delivered directly to your ear, just like
the original message.
Heightened (3rd) The spell’s range increases to 500 feet.
METAMORPHOSIS [two-actions] SPELL 9
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions arcane, primal
Duration 1 minute
Harnessing your mastery of transformative magic, you hide
forms within forms. You transform yourself into any form you
could choose with a polymorph spell in your spell repertoire
or that you could prepare of 8th-rank or lower (including any
8th-rank or lower heightened versions of spells you know).
You gain 40 temporary Hit Points rather than the amount
normally granted by the form.
You can Sustain the spell to enter a new form you haven’t
used during this metamorphosis. This replenishes your
temporary Hit Points from this spell.
MIND PROBE SPELL 5
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE LINGUISTIC MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You cast your thoughts through a creature’s mind, sifting for
information. You access the target’s memories and knowledge
unless it fends you off with a Will save.
Success The target is unaffected.
344
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Failure Each round of the spell’s duration, you can Sustain the
spell to ask a different question and attempt to uncover
the answer. For each question, the target can attempt
a Deception check against your spell DC; if the target
succeeds, you don’t learn the answer, and on a critical
success, the target gives you a false answer that you
believe is truthful. Once you’ve asked the target a given
question, asking it again, even with a separate casting of
mind probe, produces the same result.
Critical Failure As failure, and the target takes a –4
circumstance penalty to Deception checks against your
questions.
MIND READING [two-actions] SPELL 3
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE DETECTION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration 1 round or sustained up to 1 minute
With a cursory mental touch, you attempt to read the
target’s mind. It must attempt a Will save. The target then
becomes temporarily immune to your mind reading for
1 hour.
Critical Success The target perceives vague surface
thoughts from you when you Cast the Spell.
Success You find out whether the target’s Intelligence
modifier is higher than, equal to, or lower than yours.
Failure You perceive vague surface thoughts from the target
when you Cast the Spell, and you find out whether its
Intelligence is higher than, equal to, or lower than yours.
Critical Failure As failure, and for the duration of the
spell, you can Sustain the spell to detect the target’s
surface thoughts again. The target doesn’t receive any
additional saves.
MIND SKEWER [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense basic Will
You overload a creature’s mind with a glut of psychic
information or divine judgments. The mental onslaught deals
2d6 mental damage. On a critical failure, the target is also
stupefied 2 for 1 round.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
MINDLINK [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
You link your mind to the target’s mind and mentally impart
to that target an amount of information in an instant that
could otherwise be communicated in 10 minutes.
MISLEAD [two-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You turn yourself invisible and create an illusory duplicate
of yourself. When you Sustain the spell, you can mentally
dictate a course of action for your duplicate to follow that
round. Your duplicate acts as though it had your full number
of actions, though it can’t actually affect anything in the
environment. Both the duplicate and your invisibility persist
for the spell’s duration. Performing a hostile action doesn’t
end mislead’s invisibility, just like a 4th-rank invisibility
spell. A creature that determines the duplicate is an illusion
doesn’t necessarily know you’re invisible, and one that
can see your invisible form doesn’t necessarily know your
duplicate is an illusion.
If you Cast a Spell, attack, or otherwise interact with
another creature, as a part of that action you can attempt
a Deception check against observers’ Perception DCs to
convince them your duplicate used that action. This doesn’t
fool anyone who’s aware your duplicate is an illusion, nor
does it work if the attack obviously couldn’t have come
from the duplicate. For instance, if you fired a ray, you could
make it look like it came from the duplicate as long as the
duplicate was positioned appropriately, but if you attacked
with a sword and your duplicate was across the room from
the target, your Deception check would automatically fail.
MIST [three-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE WATER
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Duration 1 minute
You call forth a cloud of mist. All creatures within the mist
become concealed, and all creatures outside the mist become
concealed to creatures within it. You can Dismiss the cloud.
MOMENT OF RENEWAL [two-actions] SPELL 8
CONCENTRATE HEALING MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, primal
Range touch; Targets up to 6 creatures
The targets experience a day’s worth of recovery in an instant.
Any detrimental effects that would be gone after 24 hours
end, though this doesn’t shorten the duration of any active
spells affecting the targets. The targets regain Hit Points and
recover from conditions as if they had taken 24 hours of rest,
but they do not make their daily preparations again or gain
any benefits of rest other than healing. The targets are then
temporarily immune for 1 day.
MONSTROSITY FORM [two-actions] SPELL 8
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions arcane, primal
Duration 1 minute
You transform into the shape of a legendary monster,
assuming a Huge battle form. When you Cast this Spell,
choose dust manta, nyssholora, or space worm. While in
one of these forms, you gain the beast trait. You can Dismiss
the spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of
which battle form you choose.
345
• AC = 20 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
• 20 temporary Hit Points.
• Darkvision.
• One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks
you can Strike with. You’re trained with them. Your
attack modifier is +28, and you use the listed damage.
These attacks are Strength based (for the purpose of
the enfeebled condition, for example). If your unarmed
attack modifier is higher, you can use it instead.
• Athletics modifier of +30, unless your own is higher.
You gain specific abilities based on the monster you choose:
• Dust Manta Speed 15 feet, burrow 40 feet; Melee [one-action]
stinger (agile, finesse, reach 15 feet), Damage 2d6+12
piercing plus 4d4 persistent poison; Burrowing Charge
[two-actions] (move) You Burrow up to twice your burrow Speed,
then Leap vertically up to 25 feet high, making a stinger
Strike against a creature at any point during the jump.
After the Leap, you fall to the ground, but take no
damage from the fall if you land on dirt or sand.
• Nyssholora Speed 40 feet; Melee [one-action] jaws (reach 10
feet), Damage 2d12+20 piercing; Melee [one-action] phasic blade
(razing, reach 15 feet), Damage 2d10+13 sonic plus
phasic strike; Ranged [one-action] tail scourge discharge (range
increment 120 feet), Damage 7d6 electricity; Phasic
Flurry [three-actions] (move, traversal) You Stride up to your
Speed, then make a phasic blade Strike against each
creature within reach. Each attack counts toward your
multiple attack penalty, but don’t increase the penalty
until all these attacks have been made; Phasic Strike
Your phasic blade Strikes treat any object or construct
they hit as if it had half as much Hardness as usual.
• Space Worm Speed 40 feet, burrow 40 feet, swim 40
feet; Melee [one-action] jaws (reach 15 feet), Damage 2d12+20
piercing; Melee [one-action] tongue (finesse, reach 30 feet), Effect
tongue grab; Tongue Grab A creature hit by your tongue
becomes grabbed by you. The creature isn’t immobilized,
but it can’t move beyond the reach of your tongue. A
creature can sever the tongue with a Strike against your
AC that deals at least 30 slashing damage. This deals no
damage to you but prevents you from using your tongue
Strike until you regrow your tongue, such as by casting
the spell again later.
Heightened (9th) You instead gain AC = 22 + your level, 25
temporary HP, attack modifier +31, increase damage by
one damage die, and Athletics +33.
MOTIVATING RINGTONE [two-actions] SPELL 1
AUDITORY CONCENTRATE EMOTION HEALING MANIPULATE SUBTLE
Traditions divine, occult
Requirements You have a comm unit, used as a locus, and the
contact info of the target.
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 comm unit
Duration 1 minute
You cause the target comm unit to play a cosmically
composed personal theme song specific to its owner. The
creature who owns the target comm unit regains 1d8+4 Hit
Points when you Cast the Spell, a +5-foot status bonus to all
Speeds, and a +1 status bonus to saves against fear effects
for the duration as long as the comm unit continues to play
the ringtone.
Heightened (+1) The amount of healing increases by 1d8+4.
MOUNTAIN RESILIENCE [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE EARTH MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 20 minutes
The target’s skin hardens like the stone of a mountain face.
It gains resistance 5 to physical damage, except adamantine.
Each time the target is hit by a bludgeoning, piercing, or
slashing attack, mountain resilience’s duration decreases by
1 minute.
Heightened (6th) The resistance increases to 10.
Heightened (8th) The resistance increases to 15.
Heightened (10th) The resistance increases to 20.
MYSTIC ARMOR [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Duration until your next daily preparations
You ward yourself with shimmering magical energy, gaining
a +1 item bonus to AC and a maximum Dexterity modifier of
+5. While wearing mystic armor, you use your unarmored
proficiency to calculate your AC.
Heightened (4th) You gain a +1 item bonus to saving throws.
Heightened (6th) The item bonus to AC increases to +2, and
you gain a +1 item bonus to saving throws.
Heightened (8th) The item bonus to AC increases to +2, and
you gain a +2 item bonus to saving throws.
Heightened (10th) The item bonus to AC increases to +3, and
you gain a +3 item bonus to saving throws.
NATURE INCARNATE [two-actions] SPELL 10
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions primal
Duration 1 minute
The primal power of the world flows through you. You
transform into an incarnation of nature, either a gwereiad
queen or a kyokor. Your battle form is Medium for a gwereiad
queen or Gargantuan (30-foot-by-30-foot space) for a kyokor.
While in this form, you gain the fey trait (for a gwereiad queen)
or the beast trait (for a kyokor). You can Dismiss the spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of
which battle form you choose.
• AC = 25 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
• 30 temporary Hit Points.
• Darkvision.
• One or more attacks specific to the battle form you
choose, which are the only attacks you can Strike
with. You’re trained with them. Your attack modifier
is +34, and you use the listed damage. These attacks
346
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
are Strength based (for the purpose of the enfeebled
condition, for example). If your unarmed attack modifier
is higher, you can use it instead.
• Athletics modifier of +36, unless your own is higher.
You gain specific abilities based on the incarnation you
choose:
• Gwereiad Queen Speed 25 feet, fly 40 feet; Melee
[one-action] gravity fist (agile, finesse, magical, reach 30
feet), Damage 6d8+12 bludgeoning plus knockdown;
Ranged [one-action] particle jet (range 100 feet), Damage 3d6+3
bludgeoning plus 3d6+3 fire; Singularity Field (aura,
primal) 60 feet. Enemies that end their turn in the area
must succeed at a Reflex save against your spell DC or
be pulled 5 feet toward you (10 feet on a critical failure).
• Kyokor Speed 50 feet; resistance 5 to physical
damage; Melee [one-action] jaws (reach 30 feet), Damage
6d10+10 piercing; Melee [one-action] claws (agile, reach 30 feet),
Damage 6d8+8 slashing; Melee [one-action] foot (agile, reach
15 feet), Damage 6d6+10 bludgeoning; Unstoppable
You are immune to being immobilized and ignore
difficult terrain and greater difficult terrain; Demolish
Structures-actions When you damage a structure with your
jaws, claws, or foot Strikes, you deal an additional
6d10 damage.
NATURE’S PATHWAY SPELL 5
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL PLANT TELEPORTATION
Traditions primal
Cast 1 minute
You step into a living tree with a trunk big enough for you to
fit inside it and instantly teleport to any tree within 5 miles
that also has a sufficiently large trunk. Once you enter the
first tree, you instantly know the rough locations of other
sufficiently large trees within range and can exit from the
original tree, if you prefer. You can’t carry extradimensional
spaces with you; if you attempt to do so, the spell fails.
Heightened (6th) The tree you exit can be up to 50 miles away.
Heightened (8th) The tree you exit can be up to 500 miles
away.
Heightened (9th) The tree you exit can be anywhere on the
same planet.
NEVER MIND [two-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE CURSE INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration varies
You drastically reduce the target’s mental faculties. The
target must attempt a Will save. The effects of this curse can
be removed only through effects that target curses.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is stupefied 2 for 1 round.
Failure The target is stupefied 4 with an unlimited duration.
Critical Failure The target’s intellect is permanently reduced
below that of an animal, and it treats its Charisma,
Intelligence, and Wisdom modifiers as –5. It loses all
class abilities that require mental faculties, including all
spellcasting. If the target is a PC, they become an NPC
under the GM’s control.
NEW GAME [three-actions] SPELL 10
CONCENTRATE EXTRADIMENSIONAL MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane
Requirements You have access to a computer with a vidgame
installed on it, which can be one designed for this spell,
used as a locus.
Range 120 feet; Targets varies
Duration 1 minute
You draw creatures into a vidgame, digitizing their bodies and
minds, including equipment, to play in virtual reality. The genre
of the game and effect of the spell depend on who you target
when you cast it. Any creature targeted by this spell becomes
immune to it for 24 hours, no matter what genre they experience.
• If you cast the spell targeting yourself and any number
of willing allies, the targets enter a relaxing slice-of-life
social simulation game where they can perform up to 1
hour of activities for the duration of the spell, including
Refocusing, Repairing items, or simply evading an enemy
by hiding in this virtual extradimensional space.
• If you cast this spell targeting yourself or one willing
ally, and one enemy, the targets enter a PvP game and
are instructed to fight, using their current initiative. For
the duration of the spell, either creature can manipulate
fate once on each of its turns. This allows it to either
roll twice and take the higher result on an attack roll or
skill check it attempts against its opponent (a fortune
effect) or force the opponent to roll twice on a saving
throw against one of its abilities and take the lower
result (a misfortune effect). The GM might decide that
other genres of games exist that add additional rules
or subsystems to resolving the spell. The spell ends if
either target becomes unable to act or if they both agree
to cease hostilities. Any results of the game, such as
damage or conditions, persist after the game is over. If a
player dies in this game, they die in real life.
• If you cast this spell targeting one enemy, the target
enters a PvE or puzzle game that traps them until they
can complete the game. Once each turn, the target can
spend 1 action to attempt a Computers or Perception
check against your spell DC to escape the game.
Teleportation magic doesn’t help the creature escape
unless the magic can transport someone into or out of
a virtual space. When the spell ends, either because
the target escaped or the duration ran out, the target
returns to the space it occupied when it was digitized,
or to the nearest space if the original is now filled. The
GM might decide that other genres of games allow for
different skill checks but should only do so if the target
has proficiency in the listed skill.
Critical Success The target completes the game and the
spell ends.
Success The target makes progress toward completing the
game. If the target already made progress, it completes
the game and the spell ends.
347
Failure The target makes no progress toward completing
the game.
Critical Failure The target loses the game and has to start
over. It loses all progress it made.
NIGHTMARE SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 10 minutes
Range planetary; Targets 1 creature you know by name
Defense Will; Duration 1 day
You send disturbing nightmares to your target. The next
time the target falls asleep, it must attempt a Will save.
If you know the target only by name and have never met
them, the target gets a +4 circumstance bonus to the Will
save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected and is temporarily
immune for 1 week.
Success The target has the nightmares but has no adverse
effects other than unpleasant memories.
Failure The target has the nightmares and awakens fatigued.
Critical Failure The target has the nightmares, awakens
fatigued, and is drained 2 until it is no longer fatigued.
NOISE BLAST [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SONIC
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Area 10-foot burst
Defense Fortitude
A cacophonous noise blasts out, dealing 2d10 sonic damage.
Each creature must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is deafened for
1 round.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage, is
deafened for 1 minute, and is stunned 1.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10.
OAKEN RESILIENCE [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE PLANT WOOD
Traditions arcane, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 10 minutes
The target’s skin becomes tough, with a consistency like bark
or wood. The target gains resistance 2 to bludgeoning and
piercing damage and weakness 3 to fire. After the target
takes fire damage, it can Dismiss the spell as a free action
triggered by taking the damage; doing so doesn’t reduce the
fire damage the target was dealt.
Heightened (+2) The resistances increase by 2, and the
weakness increases by 3.
ONE WITH PLANTS [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE PLANT POLYMORPH WOOD
Traditions primal
Duration 10 minutes or 8 hours
You can either transform into a plant or merge with plant matter.
While transformed, you can’t move or affect anything outside
the plant, but you can cast spells as long as they don’t require
line of effect beyond the plant. You can Dismiss this spell.
• Merge with Plants The spell’s duration is 10 minutes.
While casting the spell, you must touch a plant with
enough volume to fit you and your possessions or the
spell is disrupted. While merged, you can hear, but not
see, what’s going on outside the plant. If the plant takes
damage while you’re inside it, you’re expelled from the
plant and take 10d6 damage. Magic passage expels you
without dealing damage. The spell ends if you’re ever
outside the plant.
• Turn into a Plant The spell’s duration is 8 hours. You
become a Large plant—typically a tree. Perception checks
don’t reveal your true nature, but a successful Nature or
Survival check against your spell DC reveals that you
appear to be a plant that is strangely new to the area.
While in this form, you can observe everything around
you, using your normal senses. As a plant, your AC is 20,
and only status bonuses, status penalties, circumstance
bonuses, and circumstance penalties affect you. Any
successes and critical successes you roll on Reflex saves
are failures.
ONE WITH STONE [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE EARTH MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions arcane, primal
Duration 10 minutes or 8 hours
You can either transform into a stone or merge with stone.
This spell has the same effects as one with plants, but lets you
merge with or turn into stone. A stone you turn into has AC
23. You can Dismiss this spell.
OUTCAST’S CURSE [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE CURSE MANIPULATE MENTAL MISFORTUNE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will
You afflict the target with a curse that makes its presence
abrasive and off-putting. The target must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success For 10 minutes, the target must roll twice and use the
worse result whenever attempting a Deception, Diplomacy,
Intimidation, or Performance check, and creatures they
encounter have an initial attitude toward them of one step
worse (for instance, unfriendly instead of indifferent).
Failure As success, but the effect is permanent.
Critical Failure As failure, and creatures that the target
encounters have an initial attitude toward them of two
steps worse.
OVERHEAT [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE FIRE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense basic Reflex
348
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
You vent heat toward a nearby target. You deal 2d6 fire
damage to the target. On a failed save, the target’s held
equipment becomes hot to the touch for the next round.
Unless the target drops its currently held equipment at the
start of its turn, it takes 3 fire damage.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6. Increase the
damage of touching affected objects by 3.
OVERLOAD SYSTEMS [two-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE ELECTRICITY MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Area 60-foot cone
Defense Reflex
You flood the area with a wave of electrical interference. You
deal 7d8 electricity damage to creatures in the area. Each
creature in the area must attempt a Reflex save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half damage.
Failure The target takes full damage, and any of its items
with the tech trait become glitching 1 for 1 minute or until
the condition is removed.
Critical Failure The target takes double damage, and any of
its items with the tech trait become glitching 2 for 1 minute
or until the condition is removed.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8.
PARALYZE [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration varies
You block the target’s motor impulses before they can leave
its mind, freezing target in place. The target must attempt a
Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is stunned 1.
Failure The target is paralyzed for 1 round.
Critical Failure The target is paralyzed for 4 rounds. At the
end of each of its turns, it can attempt a new Will save to
reduce the remaining duration by 1 round, or end it entirely
on a critical success.
Heightened (7th) You can target up to 10 creatures.
PARANOIA [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration 1 minute
You cause the target to see all other creatures as dire threats.
The target is stricken by intense paranoia toward all creatures
around it and must attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target believes everyone it sees is a potential
threat. It becomes unfriendly to all creatures to which it
wasn’t already hostile, even those that were previously
allies. It treats no one as an ally. The spell ends after 1 round.
Failure As success, but the effect lasts 1 minute.
Critical Failure As failure, except the target believes that
everyone it sees is a mortal enemy. It uses its reactions
and free actions against everyone, regardless of whether
they were previously its allies, as determined by the GM. It
otherwise acts as rationally as it normally does and likely
prefers to attack creatures that are actively attacking or
hindering it over those leaving it alone.
Heightened (6th) You can target up to 5 creatures.
PEACEFUL BUBBLE SPELL 4
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 10 minutes
Range touch; Area 100-foot burst
Duration 24 hours
An opaque shell of drifting, iridescent runes covers the area,
creating a bubble. You can choose to make the burst smaller,
in 10-foot increments. The runes don’t block travel, but those
inside the bubble can’t perceive those outside it and vice
versa. Detection and scrying effects are likewise blocked.
Creatures sleeping within the bubble are immune to
dreams sent by spells. Those sleeping 8 hours reduce their
doomed condition by 2 instead of 1.
PEACEFUL REST [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 corpse
Duration until your next daily preparations
The targeted corpse doesn’t decay, nor can it be transformed
into an undead. If the corpse is subject to a spell that
requires the corpse to have died within a certain amount
of time (for example, raise dead), do not count the duration
of peaceful rest against that time. This spell also prevents
ordinary bugs and pests (such as maggots) from consuming
the body.
Heightened (5th) The spell’s duration is unlimited, but the
spell takes one more action to cast and requires a cost
(embalming fluid worth 60 credits).
PERSONAL GRAVITY [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Duration 1 hour
You alter gravity’s effects on you. You treat gravity as if it
were your choice of one step higher or lower (for example, if
you were in an area of low gravity, you could choose either
standard gravity or zero-g). While the spell is active, you
reduce the distance of any forced movement that would
affect you by 5 feet (minimum 0 feet), and you ignore being
clumsy and untethered because of gravity effects on you. You
can Dismiss the spell.
PEST FORM [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions arcane, primal
Duration 10 minutes
349
You transform into the battle form of a Tiny animal, such as
a cat, insect, lizard, or rat. You can decide the specific type of
animal (such as a squox or praying mantis), but this has no
effect on your Size or statistics. While in this form, you gain
the animal trait, and you can’t make Strikes. You can Dismiss
the spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities:
• AC = 15 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
• Speed 20 feet.
• Weakness 5 to physical damage. (If you take physical
damage in this form, you take 5 additional damage.)
• Low-light vision and imprecise scent 30 feet.
• Acrobatics and Stealth modifiers of +10, unless your
own is higher; Athletics modifier –4.
Heightened (4th) You can turn into a flying creature, such as
a bird, which grants you a fly Speed of 20 feet.
PETRIFY [two-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE EARTH MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature made of organic material
Defense Fortitude; Duration varies
The target’s body slowly turns into a stone statue. The target
must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is slowed 1 for 1 round as stone begins to
form on their body.
Failure The target is slowed 1 and must attempt a Fortitude
save at the end of each of its turns; this ongoing save
has the incapacitation trait. On a failed save, the slowed
condition increases by 1 (or 2 on a critical failure) as stone
growths creep across their body. A successful save reduces
the slowed condition by 1. When a creature becomes fully
unable to act due to the slowed condition from petrify, the
spell then ends in a flash of gray light, leaving the target
petrified permanently as they become a statue. The spell
also ends if the slowed condition is removed, which causes
the stone to break off harmlessly.
Critical Failure As failure, but the target is initially slowed 2.
PHANTASMAGORIA [two-actions] SPELL 9
CONCENTRATE DEATH ILLUSION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 120 feet; Targets any number of creatures
Defense Will
You fill the targets’ minds with endless images, like countless
dreams and lives colliding with each other. The onrushing
information deals 16d6 mental damage to each target,
depending on its Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half damage and can’t use reactions
until the start of your next turn.
Failure The target takes full damage and is confused until the
start of your next turn.
Critical Failure The target takes double damage and is
confused for 1 minute.
PHANTASMAL CALAMITY [two-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 500 feet; Area 30-foot burst
Defense Will
A vision of apocalyptic destruction fills the mind of each
creature in the area. The vision deals 11d6 mental damage
(basic Will save). On a critical failure, the creature must also
succeed at a Reflex save or believe it’s trapped (stuck in a
fissure, adrift at sea, or some other fate in keeping with
its vision). If it fails the second save, it’s also stunned for 1
minute. It can attempt a new Will save at the end of each
of its turns, and on a success, it disbelieves the illusion and
recovers from the stunned condition.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
PHANTASMAL FLEET [two-actions] SPELL 8
CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 500 feet; Area 60-foot burst
Defense Will
A menacing vision of a fleet of hostile starships fills the mind
of each creature in the area. The ships appear to be 1,000
feet overhead bombarding the ground with laser fire. The
vision deals 10d8 mental damage with a basic Will save. On a
critical failure, the target also believes it’s being pursued and
moves to take cover. It must spend an action to Take Cover on
each of its turns, which may require it to first move to a new
space or Drop Prone. It can attempt a new Will save at the
end of each of its turns, and on a success, it disbelieves the
phantasm and stops being forced to Take Cover.
PHANTASMAL MINION STATISTICS
PHANTASMAL MINION CREATURE –1
MEDIUM FORCE MINDLESS
Perception +0; darkvision
Languages none (understands its creator)
Skills Stealth +8
Str –4, Dex +2, Con +0, Int –5, Wis +0, Cha +0
Force Body A phantasmal minion’s body is made of
magical force. It can’t use attack actions. Though it
has no physical weight, it can move and use Interact
actions to do things such as fetch objects, open
unstuck or unlocked doors, hold chairs, and clean.
It can’t pass through solid objects.
AC 13; Fort +0, Ref +4, Will +0
HP 4; Immunities disease, mental, non-magical attacks,
paralysis, poison, precision, spirit, unconscious;
Resistances all damage 5 (except force or ghost
touch)
Speed fly 30 feet
350
7
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
PHANTASMAL MINION [three-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SUMMON
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 60 feet
Defense Will; Duration 1 minute
You summon a phantasmal minion (see the sidebar on
page 350). The minion is roughly the shape of a humanoid.
You can choose to have it be invisible or have an ephemeral
appearance, but it’s obviously a magical effect, not a real
creature.
PHANTOM PAIN [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE MENTAL NONLETHAL
Traditions occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration 1 minute
Illusory pain wracks the target, dealing 2d4 mental damage
and 1d4 persistent mental damage with a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes full initial damage but no persistent
damage, and the spell ends immediately.
Failure The target takes full initial and persistent damage,
and the target is sickened 1. If the target recovers from
being sickened, the persistent damage ends and the
spell ends.
Critical Failure As failure, but the target is sickened 2.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d4 and the
persistent damage by 1d4.
PINPOINT SPELL 8
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE DETECTION MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast 10 minutes
Range unlimited; Targets 1 creature or object
You learn the name of the target’s exact location (including the
building, community, and country) and plane of existence. You
can target a creature only if you’ve seen it in person, have one
of its significant belongings, or have a piece of its body, such
as a lock of hair. To target an object, you must have touched
it or have a fragment of it. Pinpoint automatically overcomes
protections against detection effects of lower rank than this
spell, even if they would normally have a chance to block it.
PLANAR PALACE SPELL 7
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE EXTRADIMENSIONAL MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute
Range 30 feet
Duration until your next daily preparations
You grow an extradimensional demiplane consisting of a
spacious dwelling with a single entrance. The entrance
connects to the plane where you Cast the Spell, appearing
anywhere within the spell’s range as a faint, shimmering,
vertical rectangle 5 feet wide and 10 feet high. You designate
who can enter when you Cast the Spell. Once inside, you can
shut the entrance, making it invisible. You and the creatures
you designated can reopen the door at will.
351
Phantasmal Fleet
Inside, the demiplane appears to be a mansion featuring
a magnificent foyer and numerous opulent chambers. The
mansion can have any floor plan you imagine as you Cast
the Spell, provided it fits within a space 40 feet wide, 40 feet
deep, and 30 feet tall. While the entrance to the mansion is
closed, effects from outside the mansion fail to penetrate it,
and vice versa, except for interplanar teleport, which can be
used to enter the mansion. You can use scrying magic and
similar effects to observe the outside only if they’re capable
of crossing planes.
A staff of up to 24 servants attends to anyone within
the mansion. These are like the servant created by the
phantasmal minion spell, though they’re visible, with an
appearance you determine during casting. The mansion is
stocked with enough food to serve a nine-course banquet to
150 people.
PLANAR SEAL [two-actions] SPELL 7
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 120 feet; Area 60-foot burst
Duration until your next daily preparations
You create a visible magical barrier that attempts to counteract
teleportation effects and planar travel into or out of the area,
including items that allow access to extradimensional spaces.
Planar seal tries to counteract any attempt to summon a
creature into the area but doesn’t stop the creature from
departing when the summoning ends.
PLANAR TETHER [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration varies
You stitch the target to its current plane. While the target is
affected by planar tether, the spell attempts to counteract
any teleportation effect that would move the target, or any
effect that would transport it to a different plane. Planar
tether’s duration is determined by the target’s Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The duration is 1 minute.
Failure The duration is 10 minutes.
Critical Failure The duration is 1 hour.
PLANT FORM [two-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE PLANT POLYMORPH WOOD
Traditions primal
Duration 1 minute
Taking inspiration from verdant creatures, you transform
into a Large plant battle form. When you Cast this Spell,
choose a listed battle form. You can substitute a similar
specific plant to turn into (such as a pitcher plant instead
of a flytrap), but this has no effect on the form’s Size or
statistics. While in this form, you gain the plant trait. You
can Dismiss the spell.
You gain the following statistics and abilities regardless of
which battle form you choose.
• AC = 19 + your level. Ignore your armor’s check penalty
and Speed reduction.
• 12 temporary Hit Points.
• Resistance 10 to poison.
• Low-light vision.
• One or more unarmed melee attacks specific to the
battle form you choose, which are the only attacks
you can Strike with. You’re trained with them. Your
attack modifier is +17, and your damage bonus is +11.
These attacks are Strength based (for the purpose of
the enfeebled condition, for example). If your unarmed
attack modifier is higher, you can use it instead.
• Athletics modifier of +19, unless your own is higher.
You gain specific abilities based on the plant you choose:
• Moonflower Speed 30 feet; resistance 10 to electricity;
Melee [one-action] bite (reach 15 feet), Damage 2d10 piercing;
Melee [one-action] root (reach 15 feet), Damage 2d8 bludgeoning,
and you can spend an action after a hit to Grab the
target.
• Void Palm Speed 15 feet; resistance 10 to poison; Melee ]
[one-action][one-actio void frond (reach 10 feet), Damage 2d8 slashing
Heightened (6th) Your battle form is Huge, and the reach of
your attacks increases by 5 feet. You instead gain AC = 22
+ your level, 24 temporary HP, attack modifier +21, damage
bonus +16, and Athletics +22.
POCKET VACUUM [two-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Defense basic Fortitude; Duration 1 minute
You create a sudden vacuum, forcing creatures in the area
to hold their breath (page 429) or fall unconscious and
start suffocating. The explosive decompression deals 5d12
bludgeoning damage to each creature in the area when the
spell is cast or that enters the area during the duration (unless
they were already in a vacuum), with a basic Fortitude save.
Creatures who critically fail the save are also knocked prone.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d12.
POSSESSION [two-actions] SPELL 7
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE MENTAL POSSESSION
Traditions occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 living creature
Defense Will; Duration 1 minute
You send your mind and soul into the target’s body, attempting
to take control. The target must attempt a Will save. If you want
to exert less control over the target, you can choose to use the
effects of any degree of success more favorable to the target.
While you’re possessing a target, your own body is
unconscious and can’t wake up normally. You can sense
everything the possessed target does. You can Dismiss this
spell. If the possessed body dies, the spell ends and you
must succeed at a Fortitude save against your spell DC or
be paralyzed for 1 hour, or 24 hours on a critical failure. If
the spell ends during an encounter, you act just before the
possessed creature’s initiative.
352
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success You possess the target but can’t control it. You ride
along in the body while the spell lasts.
Failure You possess the target and take partial control
of it. You no longer have a separate turn; instead, you
might control the target. At the start of each of the
target’s turns, it attempts another Will save. If it fails, it’s
controlled by you on that turn; if it succeeds, it chooses
its own actions; and if it critically succeeds, it forces you
out and the spell ends.
Critical Failure You possess the target fully, and it can only
watch as you manipulate it like a puppet. The target is
controlled by you.
Heightened (9th) The duration is 10 minutes, and you can
physically enter the creature’s body, protecting your
physical body while the spell lasts.
PRESTIDIGITATION [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range 10 feet; Targets 1 object (cook, lift, or tidy only)
Duration sustained
The simplest magic does your bidding. You can perform
simple magical effects for as long as you Sustain the spell.
Each time you Sustain the spell, you can choose one of four
options.
• Cook Cool, warm, or flavor 1 pound of nonliving
material.
• Lift Slowly lift an unattended object of light Bulk or
less 1 foot off the ground.
• Make Create a temporary object of negligible Bulk,
made of congealed magical substance. The object looks
crude and artificial and is extremely fragile—it can’t be
used as a tool, weapon, or locus or cost for a spell.
• Tidy Color, clean, or soil an object of light Bulk or less.
You can affect an object of 1 Bulk with 10 rounds of
concentration, and a larger object at 1 minute per Bulk.
Prestidigitation can’t deal damage or cause adverse
conditions. Any actual change to an object (beyond what is
noted above) persists only as long as you Sustain the spell.
PROJECT IMAGE [two-actions] SPELL 7
CONCENTRATE ILLUSION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You project an illusory image of yourself. You must stay
within range of the image, and if at any point you can’t see
the image, the spell ends. Whenever you Cast a Spell other
than one whose area is an emanation, you can cause the spell
effect to originate from either yourself or the image. Because
the image is an illusion, it can’t benefit from spells, though
visual manifestations of the spell appear. The image has the
same AC and saves as you. If it is hit by an attack or fails a
save, the spell ends.
Heightened (+2) The maximum duration you can Sustain the
spell increases to 10 minutes.
PROMESSION [two-actions] SPELL 6
ATTACK COLD CONCENTRATE DEATH MANIPULATE SONIC
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature or unattended object
Defense AC and Fortitude
You flash freeze a target then send subsonic waves through
it, potentially reducing it into fine powder. Make a spell
attack against the target. If you hit a target, the target takes
6d8 cold damage and must attempt a Fortitude save. If you
critically hit, the target gets a result one degree of success
worse than it rolled on its Fortitude save. A creature reduced
to 0 Hit Points is blasted to fine powder; its gear remains.
Critical Success The target is unaffected by further damage.
Success The target takes an additional 3d8 sonic damage.
Failure The target takes an additional 6d8 sonic damage.
Critical Failure The target takes an additional 12d8 sonic
damage.
Heightened (+1) The cold and sonic damage each increase
by 1d8.
PROTECTION [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 1 minute
You ward a creature against harm. The target gains a +1
status bonus to Armor Class and saving throws.
Heightened (3rd) You can choose to have the benefits also
affect all your allies in a 10-foot emanation around the target.
PUMMELING RUBBLE [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE EARTH MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Area 15-foot cone
Defense Reflex
A spray of heavy rocks flies through the air in front of you.
The rubble deals 2d4 bludgeoning damage to each creature in
the area. Each creature must attempt a Reflex save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is pushed 5 feet
away from you.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is
pushed 10 feet away from you.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d4.
PUNISHING WINDS [three-actions] SPELL 8
AIR CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions primal
Range 100 feet; Area 30-foot radius, 100-foot-tall cylinder
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
Violent winds and a powerful downdraft fill the area,
forming a cyclone. All flying creatures in the area descend
40 feet. The entire area is greater difficult terrain for Flying
creatures, and difficult terrain for creatures on the ground
or Climbing. Any creature that ends its turn Flying within
the area descends 20 feet. Any creature pushed into a
353
surface by this spell’s winds takes bludgeoning damage as
though it had fallen.
The squares at the outside vertical edges of the cylinder
prevent creatures from leaving. These squares are greater
difficult terrain, and a creature attempting to push through
must succeed at an Athletics check or Acrobatics check to
Maneuver in Flight against your spell DC to get through. A
creature that fails ends its current action but can try again.
RAISE DEAD SPELL 6
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE HEALING MANIPULATE
Traditions divine
Cast 10 minutes; Cost gemstones worth a total value of the
target’s level (minimum 1) × 2,000 credits
Range 10 feet; Targets 1 dead creature of 13th level or lower
You attempt to call forth the dead creature’s soul, requiring the
creature’s body to be present and relatively intact. The creature
must have died within the past 3 days. If Pharasma has decided
that the creature’s time has come (at the GM’s discretion),
or if the creature doesn’t wish to return to life, this spell
automatically fails, but the cost isn’t consumed in the casting.
If the spell is successful, the creature returns to life with 1 Hit
Point, no spells prepared or spell slots available, no points in any
pools or any other daily resources, and still with any long-term
debilitations of the old body. The time spent in the Boneyard
leaves the target temporarily debilitated, making it clumsy 2,
drained 2, and enfeebled 2 for 1 week; these conditions can’t be
removed or reduced by any means until the week has passed.
The creature is also permanently changed by its time in the
afterlife, such as a slight personality shift, a streak of white in
the hair, or a strange new birthmark.
Heightened (7th) The maximum level of the target increases
to 15. The cost increases to the target’s level (minimum 1)
× 4,000 credits.
Heightened (8th) The maximum level of the target increases
to 17. The cost increases to the target’s level (minimum 1)
× 8,000 credits.
Heightened (9th) The maximum level of the target increases
to 19. The cost increases to the target’s level (minimum 1)
× 16,000 credits.
Heightened (10th) The maximum level of the target increases
to 21. The cost increases to the target’s level (minimum 1)
× 32,000 credits.
READ AURA CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE DETECTION MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast 1 minute
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 object
You focus on the target object, opening your mind to perceive
magical auras. When the casting is complete, you know
whether that item is magical. You or anyone you advise about
the aura gains a +2 circumstance bonus to Identify Magic on
the item. If the object is illusory, you detect this only if the
effect’s rank is lower than the rank of your read aura spell.
Heightened (3rd) You can target up to 10 objects.
Heightened (6th) You can target any number of objects.
READ OMENS SPELL 4
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE PREDICTION
Traditions divine, occult
Cast 10 minutes
You peek into the future. Choose a particular goal or activity
you plan to engage in within 1 week, or an event you expect
might happen within 1 week. You learn a cryptic clue or piece
of advice that could help with the chosen event, often in the
form of a rhyme or omen.
RECHARGE WEAPON [one-action] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 weapon with capacity
You touch a weapon with no remaining ammunition and
recharge it with magical energy. The target gains ammunition
or charges equal to its expend until the end of your next
turn, allowing anyone holding the target to make one Strike
with the weapon. This spell only recharges weapons that use
ammunition with a cost of 10 credits or less.
Heightened (3rd) The target gains ammunition or charges
equal to double its expend.
Heightened (6th) The target gains ammunition or charges
equal to triple its expend.
Heightened (9th) The target gains ammunition or charges
equal to quadruple its expend.
REGENERATE [two-actions] SPELL 7
CONCENTRATE HEALING MANIPULATE VITALITY
Traditions divine, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing living creature
Duration 1 minute
An infusion of vital energy grants a creature continuous
healing. The target temporarily gains regeneration 15,
which restores 15 Hit Points to it at the start of each of
its turns. While it has regeneration, the target can’t die
from taking Hit Point damage and its dying condition
can’t increase to a value that would kill it (this stops
most creatures’ dying condition at dying 3), though if its
wounded value becomes 4 or higher, it stays unconscious
until its wounds are treated. If the target takes acid or fire
damage, its regeneration deactivates until after the end of
its next turn.
Each time the creature regains Hit Points from
regeneration, it also regrows one damaged or ruined organ
(if any). During the spell’s duration, the creature can also
reattach severed body parts by spending an Interact action
to hold the body part to the area it was severed from.
Heightened (9th) The regeneration increases to 20.
REMAKE SPELL 10
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Cast 1 hour; Cost a remnant of the item
Range 5 feet
You fully re-create an object from nothing, even if the
object was destroyed. To do so, you must be able to
354
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
picture the object in your mind. The remnant of the item
can be small or insignificant (even a speck of dust that
remains from disintegrate is enough). The spell fails if your
imagination relied on too much guesswork; if the object
would be too large to fit in a 5-foot cube; if the object
still exists and you were simply not aware of it; or if the
object is an artifact, has a level over 20, or has similar vast
magical power.
The item reassembles in perfect condition. Even if your
mental image was of a damaged or weathered object,
the new one is in this perfected form. If the object was
magical, this spell typically restores its constant magical
properties, but not any temporary ones, such as charges
or one-time uses. An item with charges or uses per day has
all of its uses expended when remade, but it replenishes
them normally thereafter.
REORIENT [one-action] CANTRIP 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE VITALITY
Traditions divine, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Applying a combination of vital energy and acupressure, you
help the target regain its footing. The target loses the offguard
condition if it has it. The target becomes immune to
the off-guard condition until the start of your next turn, even
if the condition would be circumstantially applied, such as by
being flanked or prone. The target is then immune to reorient
for 10 minutes.
REPULSION [two-actions] SPELL 6
AURA CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Area emanation up to 40 feet
Defense Will; Duration 1 minute
You manifest an aura that prevents creatures from approaching
you. When casting the spell, you can make the area any radius
you choose, up to 40 feet. A creature must attempt a Will save
if it’s within the area when you Cast the Spell or as soon as it
enters the area while the spell is in effect. Once a creature has
attempted the save, it uses the same result for that casting
of repulsion. Any restrictions on a creature’s movement apply
only if it voluntarily moves toward you; if you move closer to a
creature, it doesn’t then need to move away.
Critical Success The creature’s movement is not restricted.
Success The creature treats each square in the area as
difficult terrain when moving closer to you.
Failure The creature can’t move closer to you within the area.
RESIST ENERGY [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 10 minutes
A shield of elemental energy protects a creature against one
type of energy damage. Choose acid, cold, electricity, fire,
or sonic damage. The target and its gear gain resistance 5
against the damage type you chose.
Heightened (4th) The resistance increases to 10, and you can
target up to two creatures.
Heightened (7th) The resistance increases to 15, and you can
target up to five creatures.
RETROCOGNITION SPELL 7
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 1 minute
Duration sustained
Opening your mind to mental echoes, you gain impressions
from past events that occurred in your current location.
Retrocognition reveals psychic impressions from events that
occurred over the course of the last day throughout the first
minute of the duration, followed by impressions from the next
day back the next minute, and so on. These echoes don’t play
out like a vision but instead reveal impressions of emotions
and metaphors that provide cryptic clues and details of the
past. If you witness a traumatic or turbulent event through
an impression, the spell ends unless you succeed at a Will
save with a DC of at least 30 and possibly as much as 50,
depending on the severity of the event. The GM determines
whether an event is traumatic and chooses the DC.
Heightened (8th) You gain impressions of events that occurred
over the previous year for each minute you concentrate,
instead of the previous day, though the details diminish,
making it harder to distinguish impressions from all but
the most major events.
Heightened (9th) You gain impressions of events that
occurred over the previous century for each minute you
concentrate, instead of the previous day, though the
details diminish, making it almost impossible to distinguish
impressions from all but the most major events.
REVEALING LIGHT [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE LIGHT MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot burst
Defense Reflex; Duration varies
A wave of magical light washes over the area. You choose
the appearance of the light, such as colorful, heatless flames
or sparkling motes. A creature affected by revealing light is
dazzled. If the creature was invisible, it becomes concealed
instead. If the creature was already concealed for any other
reason, it is no longer concealed.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The light affects the creature for 2 rounds.
Failure The light affects the creature for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The light affects the creature for 10 minutes.
REVIVAL [two-actions] SPELL 10
CONCENTRATE HEALING MANIPULATE VITALITY
Traditions divine, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets dead creatures and living creatures of
your choice within range
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
A burst of healing energy soothes living creatures and
355
temporarily rouses those recently slain. All living targets
regain 10d8+40 Hit Points. You return any number of
dead targets to life temporarily, with the same effects and
limitations as raise dead (page 354). The raised creatures
have a number of temporary Hit Points equal to the Hit Points
you gave living creatures, but no normal Hit Points. The
raised creatures can’t regain Hit Points or gain temporary Hit
Points in other ways, and once revival’s duration ends, they
lose all temporary Hit Points and die. Revival can’t resurrect
creatures killed by disintegrate or a death effect. It has no
effect on undead.
REWRITE MEMORY [two-actions] SPELL 4
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration unlimited
You alter the target’s memories by erasing a memory,
enhancing a memory’s clarity, altering a memory, or adding
a false memory. The target can attempt a Will save to resist
the spell.
Critical Success The target is unaffected and realizes you
tried to alter its memory.
Success The target is unaffected but thinks your spell was
something harmless instead of rewrite memory, unless it
identifies the spell.
Failure During the first 5 minutes of the spell’s duration, you
can Sustain the spell to modify a memory once each round.
When you do, you imagine up to 6 seconds of memory to
modify, to a maximum of 5 continuous minutes of memory.
Any memories you’ve altered remain changed as long as
the spell is active. If the target moves out of range before the
5 minutes is up, you can’t alter any further memories.
Heightened (6th) You can Cast the Spell on a willing target
to suppress all memory of a particular topic, detailed in
50 words or fewer. The effect is permanent, and it patches
these omissions with an indistinct haze.
RICOCHET [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE METAL
Traditions arcane, divine
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 or 2 creatures
Defense basic Reflex
A spinning disk or smooth orb of shimmering steel leaps
from one target to another. You deal 2d4 bludgeoning or
slashing damage (with a basic Reflex save).
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d4.
ROCKET DASH [two-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE FIRE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane
Defense Reflex
You emit a rocket of flame from behind you and blast
forward. You move in a straight line up to twice your Speed;
you can move through spaces occupied by creatures, and
the movement doesn’t trigger reactions. Creatures in the
area take 6d12 fire damage with a basic Reflex save. On
a critical failure, a creature also takes 2d6 persistent fire
damage and is dazzled for 1 round. You reappear at the end
of the line.
Heightened (+2) The fire damage increases by 2d12, and the
persistent fire damage on a critical failure increases by 1d6.
ROOT OF ALL PAIN [two-actions] SPELL 7
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL PLANT
Traditions primal
Range touch
Defense Fortitude; Duration 1 minute
Your finger pushes a tiny root into the target’s body that
begins to grow, burrowing through the nervous system as it
feeds off the electric signals triggered by the agonizing pain
of its intrusive spread. The target attempts a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes 2d8 mental damage the first time
each round it performs any action other than an action that
is purely mental, such as Recall Knowledge (or other actions
as determined by the GM).
Failure As success, except the target takes 4d8 mental damage
and is slowed 1 for the duration of the spell.
Critical Failure As success, except the target takes 6d8 mental
damage and is slowed 2 for the duration of the spell.
SANCTUARY [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 minute
You ward a creature with protective energy that deters
attacks. Creatures attempting to attack the target must
attempt a Will save each time. If the target uses a hostile
action, the spell ends.
Critical Success Sanctuary ends.
Success The creature can attempt its attack and any other
attacks against the target this turn.
Failure The creature can’t attack the target and wastes the
action. It can’t attempt further attacks against the target
this turn.
Critical Failure The creature wastes the action and can’t
attempt to attack the target for the rest of sanctuary’s
duration.
SCAN ENVIRONMENT CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, primal
Cast 10 minutes
You analyze the natural environment in the area within 1
mile, learning general information about the atmosphere,
biomes, and gravity. You forecast the weather for the next
hour, including the direction it will come from; learn which
atmospheres, biomes, and gravity are in the area, as well
as the direction and distance to those elements; and learn
if anything in the area presents an environmental hazard,
including cold or heat dangers (at what temperature range),
radiation (at what severity), smoke effects, and underwater
356
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
conditions. This is enough to detect large effects that span
spaces over 30 feet in diameter only. You gain a general
sense of where and how far away these dangers are.
Heightened (+1) The scanned area increases in radius by
1 mile.
SCOUTING EYE SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SCRYING
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Cast 1 minute
Range see text
Duration sustained
You create an invisible, floating eye, 1 inch in diameter, at a
location you can see within 500 feet. It sees in all directions
with your normal visual senses and continuously transmits
what it sees to you.
The first time you Sustain the spell each round, you can
either move the eye up to 30 feet, seeing only things in front
of the eye, or move it up to 10 feet, seeing everything in all
directions around it. There is no limit to how far from you
the eye can move, but the spell ends immediately if you and
the eye ever cease to be on the same plane of existence. You
can attempt Seek actions through the eye if you want to
attempt Perception checks with it. Any damage dealt to the
eye destroys it and ends the spell.
SCRYING SPELL 6
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SCRYING
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 10 minutes
Range planetary; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration sustained up to 10 minutes
You magically spy on a creature of your choice. Scrying
works like clairvoyance (page 321), except that the image
you receive is less precise, insufficient for teleport and
similar spells. Instead of creating an eye in a set location
within 500 feet, you instead create an eye that manifests
just above the target. You can choose a target either by
name or by touching one of its possessions or a piece of its
body. If you haven’t met the target in person, scrying’s DC
is 2 lower, and if you are unaware of the target’s identity
(perhaps because you found an unknown creature’s fang at
a crime scene), the DC is instead 10 lower.
The effect of scrying depends on the target’s Will save.
Critical Success The spell fails and the target is temporarily
immune for 1 week. The target also gains a glimpse of
you and learns its rough distance and direction from you.
Success The spell fails and the target is temporarily
immune for 1 day.
Failure The spell succeeds.
Critical Failure The spell succeeds, and the eye follows the
target if it moves, traveling up to 60 feet per round.
SEE THE UNSEEN [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE REVELATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Duration 10 minutes
Your gaze pierces through illusions and finds invisible
creatures and spirits. You can see invisible creatures as
though they weren’t invisible, although their features are
blurred, making them concealed and difficult to identify.
You can also see incorporeal creatures, like ghosts, phased
through an object from within 10 feet of an object’s surface
as blurry shapes seen through those objects. Subtler clues
also grant you a +2 status bonus to checks you make to
disbelieve illusions.
Heightened (5th) This spell has a duration of 8 hours.
SEEK THE STARS [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, occult, primal
In your mind’s eye, you chart a path through the cosmos. If
you’re in Pact Worlds space, you immediately know which
direction to travel in order to reach the Starstone on Absalom
Station. If you’re outside the Pact System, you know the
direction to the nearest Drift beacon or the Starstone.
Heightened (7th) You can instead know the direction to a
familiar location, such as a world or way station you’ve
visited.
SELECTIVE INVISIBILITY [two-actions] SPELL 3
ILLUSION MANIPULATE SUBTLE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 500 feet; Targets 1 willing creature touched and one
within range
Duration 1 minute
A willing creature you touch becomes invisible to everyone
except a second target within the spell’s range. If the invisible
creature uses a hostile action against anyone who isn’t the
target that can see them, the spell ends after that hostile
action is completed.
Heightened (5th) You can make up to 6 willing creatures within
30 feet invisible, but they all must have the same target.
SENDING [three-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range planetary; Targets 1 creature you know well
You send the creature a mental message of 25 words or
fewer, and it can respond immediately with its own message
of 25 words or fewer.
SHADOW BLAST [two-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SHADOW
Traditions divine, occult
Range varies; Area varies
Defense basic Reflex or Will (target’s choice)
You shape the shadow substance of the Netherworld into a
blast. Choose acid, bludgeoning, cold, electricity, fire, force,
piercing, slashing, sonic, or spirit damage, and choose a 30-
foot cone, a 15-foot burst within 120 feet, or a 50-foot line.
The blast deals 6d8 damage of the type you chose to each
creature in the area.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8.
357
SHAPE STONE [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE EARTH MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range touch; Targets cube of stone 10 feet across or smaller
Calling on your will and the powers of the earth, you shape
the stone into a rough shape of your choice. The shaping
process is too crude to produce intricate parts, fine details,
moving pieces, or the like. Any creatures standing atop
the stone when you reshape it must each attempt a Reflex
save or Acrobatics check.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature falls prone atop the stone.
Critical Failure The creature falls off the stone (if applicable)
and lands prone.
SHAPE WOOD [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE PLANT WOOD
Traditions arcane, primal
Range touch; Targets an unworked piece of wood up to 20
cubic feet in volume
You shape the wood into a rough shape of your choice.
The shaping power is too crude to produce with intricate
parts, fine details, moving pieces, or the like. You can’t use
this spell to enhance the value of the wooden object you
are shaping.
SHARE LIFE [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions divine
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration 10 minutes
You forge a temporary link between the target’s life essence
and your own. The target takes half damage from all effects
that deal Hit Point damage, and you take the remainder of the
damage. When you take damage through this link, you don’t
apply any resistances, weaknesses, or other abilities you have
to that damage; you simply take that amount of damage. The
spell ends if the target is ever more than 30 feet away from
you. If either you or the target is reduced to 0 Hit Points, any
damage from this spell is resolved and then the spell ends.
SHARE PAIN [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will
You telepathically share the sensation of agonizing pain
with a creature. The target takes 3d12 mental damage and
attempts a Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is clumsy 1 for 1
minute.
Critical Failure The creature takes full damage and is clumsy
2 for 1 minute.
Heightened (6th) The spell targets up to four creatures and
deals 6d12 mental damage.
SHATTER [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SONIC
Traditions occult, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 unattended object
A high-frequency sonic attack shatters a nearby object. You
deal 2d10 sonic damage to the object, ignoring the object’s
Hardness if it is 4 or lower.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d10, and the
Hardness the spell ignores increases by 2.
SHIELD [one-action] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE FORCE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Duration until the start of your next turn
You raise a magical shield of force. This counts as using the
Raise a Shield action (page 411), giving you a +1 circumstance
bonus to AC until the start of your next turn, but it doesn’t
require a hand to use.
While the spell is in effect, you can use the Shield Block
reaction (page 228) with your magic shield. The shield
has Hardness 5. You can use the spell’s reaction to reduce
damage from any spell or magical effect, even if it doesn’t
deal physical damage. After you use Shield Block, the spell
ends and you can’t cast it again for 10 minutes.
Heightened (+2) The shield’s Hardness increases by 5.
SHIFTING SURGE [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets one weapon held by you or a
willing ally that deals acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic
damage
Duration 1 minute or until discharged
You release a surge of magical energy that temporarily
changes the type of damage dealt by a weapon. The next
Strike the weapon makes deals your choice of acid, cold,
electricity, fire, or sonic damage and deals an additional
1d6 extra damage of the same type as the weapon’s normal
damage.
Heightened (+2) The extra damage increases by 1d6.
SHRINK [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 5 minutes
You warp space to make a creature smaller. The target
shrinks to become Tiny in size. Its equipment shrinks with
it but returns to its original size if removed. The creature’s
reach changes to 0 feet. This spell has no effect on a Tiny
creature.
Heightened (6th) The spell can target up to 10 creatures.
SIFT THE SPHERE SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE PREDICTION
Traditions divine, occult
Cast 10 minutes
358
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
You ritually sift through the local infosphere and gain
mystical insight about a topic. During the casting of
this spell, ask about the results of a particular course of
action. The spell can predict results up to 30 minutes into
the future and reveals the GM’s best guess among the
following outcomes.
• Weal The results will be good.
• Woe The results will be bad.
• Weal and Woe The results will be a mix of good and
bad.
• Nothing There won’t be particularly good or bad
results. The GM rolls a secret DC 6 flat check. On a
failure, the result is always “nothing.” This makes
it impossible to tell whether a “nothing” result is
accurate. If anyone asks about the same topic as the
first casting of sift the sphere during an additional
casting, the GM uses the secret roll result from the
first casting. If circumstances change, it’s possible to
get a different result.
Heightened (4th) The spell can predict results up to 1 week
into the future.
SIGIL [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature or object
Duration unlimited (see below)
You harmlessly place your unique magical sigil, which is
about 1 square inch in size, on the targeted creature or object.
The mark can be visible or invisible, and you can change it
from one state to another by using an Interact action to
touch the target. The mark can be scrubbed or scraped off
with 5 minutes of work. If it’s on a creature, it fades naturally
over the course of a week. The time before the mark fades
increases depending on your heightened rank.
Heightened (3rd) The sigil instead fades after 1 month.
Heightened (5th) The sigil instead fades after 1 year.
Heightened (7th) The sigil never fades.
SILENCE [two-actions] SPELL 2
ILLUSION MANIPULATE SUBTLE
Traditions divine, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 1 minute
The target makes no sound, preventing creatures from
noticing it using hearing alone. The target can’t use sonic
attacks, nor can it use auditory actions. This also prevents
the target from casting spells due to the magical words
involved in casting, with the exception of subtle spells.
Heightened (4th) The spell creates an aura in a 10-foot
emanation around the touched creature, silencing all
sound in or passing through it. While within the aura,
creatures are subject to the same effects as the target.
Depending upon the position of the effect, a creature
might notice the lack of sound reaching it (blocking off
the noise coming from a party, for example).
359
Singularity Seed
SINGULARITY SEED [three-actions] SPELL 8
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions divine, primal
Range 100 feet; Area one 5-foot square and one 50-foot
emanation surrounding it
Defense Reflex; Duration 1 minute
A tiny particle of incredibly dense mass magically blossoms
into a gravitational singularity that pulls creatures toward
it and spatially compresses any creatures that are moved
into it. You create a singularity in a 5-foot square that is
unoccupied by any creatures. All creatures and unsecured
objects in a 50-foot emanation around the singularity
are moved toward the singularity when the spell is cast,
depending on their Reflex save (see below). Creatures
and objects are moved starting with those closest to the
singularity, so they might block the path of other creatures
and objects that are pulled in later.
Creatures’ spaces can overlap in the square that contains
the singularity. A creature or object that enters the
singularity or ends its turn there takes 10d10 bludgeoning
damage with no saving throw. While in the singularity, a
creature can take no actions except to attempt to Escape
against your Spell DC. When the spell ends, the singularity
disappears, and overlapping creatures are moved to the
closest unoccupied space, as determined by the GM.
Squares in the emanation are difficult terrain for
creatures moving away from the singularity, and creatures
moving toward the singularity can move 10 feet for each 5
feet of movement they spend.
A creature needs to attempt a Reflex save if it’s in the
area when the spell is cast and when it ends its turn in
the area.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is pulled 10 feet toward the
singularity.
Failure The creature is pulled 20 feet toward the
singularity.
Critical Failure The creature is pulled 30 feet toward the
singularity.
SKIM DATA [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range touch; Targets one dataset contained within a
touched object
You touch one object and concentrate on a dataset
contained within it, such as a story, message, file,
infosphere site, audio recording, or video. You understand
the gist of the dataset and can quickly locate the most
relevant pages or sections to your search. If the dataset
is written or otherwise communicated in a language you
don’t know, or you attempt to gain information from a
computer you don’t have access to (such as one with a
password you don’t know), the spell fails.
If you Cast this Spell as part of a Research activity
(GM Core 212), you treat a critical failure as a failure
instead.
SKYFIRE WINGS [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE ELECTRICITY FIRE MANIPULATE MORPH
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Duration 1 minute
Wings of plasma grow from your body that propel you to
soar high above your enemies, or scorch them for getting too
close. You gain a fly Speed equal to your Speed or 20 feet,
whichever is greater. Your arms (or primary set of arms) turn
into wings that can’t hold items or wield weapons. You drop
any held equipment in those arms. You gain a wing unarmed
attack that deals 1d8 fire damage and has the backswing,
reach, and unarmed traits. On a critical hit, a target of your
wing attack takes 2 persistent electricity damage.
Heightened (5th) Your wings deal 2d8 fire damage and 4
persistent electricity damage on a critical hit. The duration
increases to 5 minutes.
Heightened (7th) Your wings deal 3d8 fire damage and 6
persistent electricity damage on a critical hit. The duration
increases to 1 hour.
Heightened (9th) Your wings deal 4d8 fire damage and 8
persistent electricity damage on a critical hit. The duration
increases to 8 hours.
SLEEP [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE MENTAL SLEEP
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Area 5-foot burst
Defense Will
Each creature in the area becomes drowsy, possibly nodding
off. A creature that falls unconscious from this spell doesn’t
fall prone or release what it’s holding. This spell doesn’t
prevent creatures from waking up due to a successful
Perception check, limiting its utility in combat.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes a –1 status penalty to Perception
checks for 1 round.
Failure The creature falls unconscious. If it’s still unconscious
after 1 minute, it wakes up automatically.
Critical Failure The creature falls unconscious. If it’s still
unconscious after 1 hour, it wakes up automatically.
Heightened (4th) The creatures fall unconscious for 1 round
on a failure or 1 minute on a critical failure. They fall prone
and release what they’re holding, and they can’t attempt
Perception checks to wake up. When the duration ends,
the creature is sleeping normally instead of automatically
waking up.
SLICE REALITY [three-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 120 feet
Defense basic Reflex; Duration 1 minute
You slice through reality, forming a chasm of life-draining
entropy in a straight line 20 feet high, 120 feet long, and
2 inches thick. The chasm provides cover. The chasm deals
7d8 void damage to each creature that’s in the chasm’s
space when it’s created, that attempts to pass through the
360
7
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
chasm, or that ends its turn inside the chasm, with a basic
Reflex save. A creature that succeeds at this save when
the chasm is created is pushed to the nearest space on the
side of its choice. Creatures trying to move through the
chasm fail to do so if they critically fail the save, ending
their movement next to the chasm.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8.
SLOW [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Fortitude; Duration varies
You dilate the flow of time around the target, slowing
its actions.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is slowed 1 for 1 round.
Failure The target is slowed 1 for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The target is slowed 2 for 1 minute.
Heightened (6th) You can target up to 10 creatures.
SONIC SCREAM [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SONIC
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Area 15-foot cone
Defense Fortitude
You unleash a painfully rapid cone of vibrations by letting
out a cathartic scream, dealing 1d8 sonic damage to
creatures in the area with a basic Fortitude save. A creature
that fails its saving throw also becomes sickened 1.
Heightened (+1) Increases the damage by 1d8.
SOOTHE [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE EMOTION HEALING MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 1 minute
You grace the target’s mind, boosting its mental defenses
and healing its wounds. The target regains 1d10+4 Hit
Points when you Cast the Spell and gains a +2 status
bonus to saves against mental effects for the duration of
the spell.
Heightened (+1) The amount of healing increases by 1d10+4.
SOUL SURGE [two-actions] SPELL 2
ATTACK CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SANCTIFIED SPIRIT
Traditions divine, primal
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense AC
You channel your life force into a spear of energy. You lose
6 Hit Points or, if you’re in a bond with a vitality network
that has at least 12 Hit Points, you can reduce the vitality
bond’s Hit Points by 12 instead. Make a ranged spell
attack against the target’s AC. On a hit, you deal 6d6 spirit
damage. On a critical hit, the target takes double damage
and becomes drained 1.
361
Sonic Scream
Heightened (+1) Increase the damage dealt by 2d6 and the
Hit Points lost by 2 (or by 4 if you spend Hit Points from
a vitality network).
SOUND BODY [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE HEALING MANIPULATE VITALITY
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
You send a surge of healing energy to restore the target’s
body. Attempt to counteract (page 423) an effect of your
choice imposing one of these conditions on the target:
blinded, dazzled, deafened, enfeebled, or sickened. If you
didn’t counteract the effect, but you would have if its
counteract rank were 2 lower, instead suppress the effect
until the beginning of your next turn. The effect’s duration
doesn’t elapse while it’s suppressed.
This spell can’t counteract or suppress curses, diseases,
or conditions that are part of the target’s normal state.
Heightened (4th) Add drained and slowed to the list of
conditions.
Heightened (8th) Add stunned to the list of conditions.
SPEAK WITH ANIMALS [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions primal
Duration 1 hour
You can ask questions of, receive answers from, and use the
Diplomacy skill with animals. The spell doesn’t make them
more friendly than normal. Cunning animals are likely to be
terse and evasive, while less intelligent ones often make
inane comments.
SPEAK WITH COMPUTERS [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine
Duration 1 hour
You can ask questions of and receive answers from the
spirits inhabiting a computer. These synthetic spirits
manifest within computer code and often have personalities
colored by the nature of the device, its condition, and
its applications and personalized settings. A computer’s
perspective, perception, and knowledge give it a worldview
different enough from a human’s that it doesn’t consider
the same details important. Computers can mostly answer
questions about creatures that interfaced with them in the
past and what information is concealed within their files.
Heightened (6th) The duration is 8 hours.
SPEAK WITH PLANTS [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE PLANT WOOD
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Duration 1 hour
You can ask questions of and receive answers from plants
and fungi, but the spell doesn’t make them more friendly
or intelligent than normal. Most normal plants and fungi
have a distinctive view of the world around them, so they
don’t recognize details about creatures or know anything
about the world beyond their immediate vicinity. Cunning
plant or fungus monsters are likely to be terse and evasive,
while less intelligent ones often make inane comments.
Heightened (4th) The duration is 8 hours.
SPEAK WITH STONES [two-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE EARTH MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Duration 1 hour
You can ask questions of and receive answers from natural
or worked stone. While stone is not intelligent, you
speak with the natural spirits of the stone, which have a
personality colored by the type of stone, as well as by the
type of structure the stone is part of, for worked stone. A
stone’s perspective, perception, and knowledge give it a
worldview different enough from a human’s that it doesn’t
consider the same details important. Stones can mostly
answer questions about creatures that touched them in the
past and what is concealed beneath or behind them.
Heightened (6th) The duration is 8 hours.
SPIRIT BLAST [two-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SPIRIT
Traditions divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense basic Fortitude
You concentrate ethereal energy and attack a creature’s
spirit, dealing 16d6 spirit damage with a basic Fortitude save.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
SPIRIT LINK [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE HEALING MANIPULATE SPIRIT
Traditions divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 10 minutes
You form a spiritual link with another creature, taking in
its pain. When you Cast this Spell and at the start of each
of your turns, if the target is below maximum Hit Points, it
regains 2 Hit Points (or the difference between its current
and maximum Hit Points, if that’s lower). You lose as many
Hit Points as the target regained.
This is a spiritual transfer, so no effects apply that
would increase the Hit Points the target regains or
decrease the Hit Points you lose. This transfer also ignores
any temporary Hit Points you or the target have. Since
this effect doesn’t involve vitality or void energy, spirit
link works even if you or the target is undead. While the
duration persists, you gain no benefit from regeneration or
fast healing. You can Dismiss this spell, and if you’re ever
at 0 Hit Points, spirit link ends automatically.
Heightened (+1) The number of Hit Points transferred each
time increases by 2.
SPIRITUAL ARMAMENT [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SANCTIFIED SPIRIT
Traditions divine, occult
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
362
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Defense AC; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You create a ghostly, magical echo of one weapon you’re
wielding or wearing and fling it. Attempt a spell attack
roll against the target’s AC, dealing 2d8 damage on a hit
(or double damage on a critical hit). The damage type is
the same as the chosen weapon (or any of its types for a
versatile weapon). The attack deals spirit damage instead
if that would be more detrimental to the creature (as
determined by the GM). This attack uses and contributes
to your multiple attack penalty. After the attack, the
weapon returns to your side. If you sanctify the spell, the
attacks are sanctified as well.
Each time you Sustain the spell, you can repeat the
attack against any creature within 120 feet.
Heightened (+2) The damage increases by 1d8.
STABILIZE [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE HEALING MANIPULATE VITALITY
Traditions divine, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 dying creature
Life energy shuts death’s door. The target loses the dying
condition, though it remains unconscious at 0 Hit Points.
STATUS [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE DETECTION MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing living creature
Duration until your next daily preparations
As long as you and the target are on the same plane of
existence and both alive, you remain aware of its present
state. You know the target’s direction from you, distance
from you, and any conditions affecting it.
Heightened (4th) The spell’s range increases to 30 feet,
and you can target up to 10 creatures.
STUMBLE [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 100 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Reflex
A burst of microgravity causes a tremor around the target,
pulling it toward the ground. The target must attempt a
Reflex save.
Failure The target becomes off-guard for 1 round. If the
target was flying, swimming, or floating, it falls 10 feet
downward.
Critical Failure The target falls prone. If the target was
flying, swimming, or floating, it falls 20 feet downward.
Heightened (+1) If the target falls, it falls an additional 5
feet on a failure and 10 feet on a critical failure.
STUPEFY [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration varies
You dull the target’s mind, depending on its Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target is stupefied 1 until the start of your next
turn.
Failure The target is stupefied 2 for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The target is stupefied 3 for 1 minute.
SUBCONSCIOUS SUGGESTION [two-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE INCAPACITATION LINGUISTIC MANIPULATE MENTAL SUBTLE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration varies
You implant a subconscious suggestion deep within the
target’s mind for them to follow when a trigger you specify
occurs (as described on page 301). You suggest a course
of action to the target. Your directive must be phrased in
such a way as to seem like a logical course of action to
the target, and it can’t be self-destructive or obviously
against the target’s self-interest. The target must attempt
a Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected and knows you
tried to control it.
Success The target is unaffected and thinks you were
talking to them normally, not casting a spell on them.
Failure The suggestion remains in the target’s subconscious
until the next time you prepare. If the trigger occurs
before then, the target immediately follows your
suggestion. The effect has a duration of 1 minute, or
until the target has completed a finite suggestion or
the suggestion becomes self-destructive or has other
obvious negative effects.
Critical Failure As failure, but the duration is 1 hour.
Heightened (9th) You can target up to 10 creatures.
SUBJECTIVE REALITY [one-action] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions occult
Range 500 feet; Targets 1 creature or object
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You alter your perceptions to convince yourself that
another creature or object is an illusion. Choose one object
or creature you can perceive within range. For you, the
target becomes transparent and doesn’t create sound,
smell, or other sensory output. You can move through
the target, and the target can move through you. You
gain resistance to all damage originating from the target
equal to your level. If you are targeted by or are in the
area of one of the target’s abilities or effects, the target
must succeed at a DC 5 flat check, and if it fails, you’re
unaffected by the ability or effect. You’re immune to all of
the target’s auditory, linguistic, and scent-based attacks
and effects. Your attacks deal no damage to the target,
and the target is immune to your spells and other effects.
You and the target can affect one another indirectly,
such as through a Strike from a minion or through the
environment affected by a witchwarper’s quantum field.
When this spell ends, the target becomes immune to
subjective reality for 24 hours.
363
SUGGESTION [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE INCAPACITATION LINGUISTIC MANIPULATE MENTAL SUBTLE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration varies
Your honeyed words are difficult for creatures to resist.
You suggest a course of action to the target, which must
be phrased in such a way as to seem like a logical course of
action to the target and can’t be self-destructive or obviously
against the target’s self-interest. The target must attempt a
Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected and knows you tried
to control it using a spell.
Success The target is unaffected.
Failure The target immediately follows your suggestion. The
spell has a duration of 1 minute, or until the target has
completed a finite suggestion or the suggestion becomes
self-destructive or has other obvious negative effects.
Critical Failure As failure, but the base duration is 1 hour.
Heightened (8th) You can target up to 10 creatures.
SUMMON ANIMAL [three-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SUMMON
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You summon a creature that has the animal trait and whose
level is –1 to fight for you.
Heightened As listed in the summon trait (page 370).
SUMMON CELESTIAL [three-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE HOLY MANIPULATE SUMMON
Traditions divine
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You summon a creature that has the celestial trait and whose
level is 5 or lower to fight for you. The GM might determine
your deity restricts the specific types of celestials you can
summon in certain cases.
Heightened As listed in the summon trait (page 370).
SUMMON CONSTRUCT [three-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SUMMON
Traditions arcane
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You summon a creature that has the construct trait and
whose level is –1 to fight for you.
Heightened As listed in the summon trait (page 370).
SUMMON DRAGON [three-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SUMMON
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You summon a creature that has the dragon trait and
whose level is 5 or lower to fight for you. If the dragon has
a magical tradition trait (arcane, divine, occult, or primal),
you can summon it only if you’re using that tradition to
cast summon dragon.
Heightened As listed in the summon trait (page 370).
SUMMON ELEMENTAL [three-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SUMMON
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You summon a creature that has the elemental trait and
whose level is 1 or lower to fight for you.
Heightened As listed in the summon trait (page 370).
SUMMON ENTITY [three-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SUMMON
Traditions occult
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You summon a creature that has the aberration trait and
whose level is 5 or lower to fight for you.
Heightened As listed in the summon trait (page 370).
SUMMON FEY [three-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SUMMON
Traditions occult, primal
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You summon a creature that has the fey trait and whose level
is –1 to fight for you.
Heightened As listed in the summon trait (page 370).
SUMMON FIEND [three-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SUMMON UNHOLY
Traditions divine
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You summon a creature that has the fiend trait and
whose level is 5 or lower to fight for you. The GM might
determine your deity restricts the specific types of fiends
you can summon in certain cases. For instance, archdevils
typically allow their followers to summon devils, but not
other fiends.
Heightened As listed in the summon trait (page 370).
SUMMON GIANT [three-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SUMMON
Traditions primal
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You summon a creature that has the giant trait and whose
level is 5 or lower to fight for you.
Heightened As listed in the summon trait (page 370).
SUMMON INSTRUMENT [three-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
364
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Duration 1 hour
You materialize a handheld musical instrument in your
grasp. The instrument is typical for its type, but it plays
for only you. It vanishes when the spell ends. If you cast
summon instrument again, any instrument you previously
summoned disappears.
Heightened (5th) The instrument is instead a tactical
handheld instrument.
SUMMON MONITOR [three-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SUMMON
Traditions divine
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You summon a creature that has the monitor trait and whose
level is 5 or lower to fight for you. The GM might determine
your deity restricts the specific types of monitors you can
summon in certain cases. For instance, Urgathoa typically
doesn’t allow her followers to summon psychopomps.
Heightened As listed in the summon trait (page 370).
SUMMON PLANT OR FUNGUS [three-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SUMMON
Traditions primal
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You summon a creature that has the plant or fungus trait and
whose level is –1 to fight for you.
Heightened As listed in the summon trait (page 370).
SUMMON ROBOT [three-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SUMMON
Traditions arcane
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You summon a creature that has the tech trait and whose
level is –1 to fight for you.
Heightened As listed in the summon trait (page 370).
SUMMON UNDEAD [three-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SUMMON
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 30 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You summon a creature that has the undead trait and whose
level is –1 to fight for you.
Heightened As listed in the summon trait (page 370).
SUNBURST [TWO-ACTIONS] SPELL 7
CONCENTRATE FIRE LIGHT MANIPULATE VITALITY
Traditions divine, primal
Range 500 feet; Area 60-foot burst
Defense Reflex
A powerful globe of searing sunlight explodes in the area,
dealing 8d10 fire damage to all creatures in the area, plus an
additional 8d10 vitality damage to undead creatures. Each
creature in the area must attempt a Reflex save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage.
Critical Failure The creature takes full damage and becomes
blinded permanently.
If the globe overlaps with an area of magical darkness,
sunburst attempts to counteract the darkness effect.
Heightened (+1) The fire damage increases by 1d10, and the
vitality damage against undead increases by 1d10.
SUPERCHARGE WEAPON [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 weapon held by you or a willing ally
Duration 1 minute or until discharged
You draw in and condense ambient magical energy from
around you to power up a weapon. The next Strike made
using that weapon is supercharged. That Strike deals an
additional 1d6 damage of the same type as the weapon’s
normal damage.
Heightened (+2) The extra damage increases by 1d6.
SURE FOOTING [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE HEALING MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
You free the target’s limbs from ailments that impede mobility.
Attempt to counteract (page 423) an effect of your choice
imposing one of these conditions on the target: clumsy,
grabbed, or paralyzed. If you didn’t counteract the effect, but
you would have if its counteract rank were 2 lower, instead
suppress the effect until the beginning of your next turn. The
effect’s duration doesn’t elapse while it’s suppressed.
This spell can’t counteract or suppress curses, diseases,
or conditions that are part of the target’s normal state.
Heightened (4th) Add immobilized, restrained, and slowed
to the list of conditions.
Heightened (6th) Add petrified to the list of conditions.
Heightened (8th) Add stunned to the list of conditions.
SURE STRIKE [one-action] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE FORTUNE
Traditions arcane, occult
Duration until the end of your turn
A glimpse into the future ensures your next blow strikes
true. The next time you make an attack roll before the end
of your turn, roll the attack twice and use the better result.
The attack ignores circumstance penalties to the attack
roll and any flat check required due to the target being
concealed or hidden. You are then temporarily immune to
sure strike for 10 minutes.
SYNAPTIC PULSE [two-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions occult
Area 30-foot emanation
Defense Will; Duration 1 round
365
You emit a pulsating mental blast that penetrates the minds
of all enemies in the area. Each enemy in the area must
attempt a Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature is stunned 1.
Failure The creature is stunned 2.
Critical Failure The creature is stunned for 1 round.
TAILWIND [two-actions] SPELL 1
AIR CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Duration 1 hour
The wind at your back pushes you to find new horizons. You
gain a +10-foot status bonus to your Speed.
Heightened (2nd) The duration increases to 8 hours.
TALKING CORPSE SPELL 4
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, occult
Cast 10 minutes
Range touch; Targets 1 corpse
Defense Will; Duration 10 minutes
You grant the target corpse a semblance of life, which it
uses to speak the answers to three questions posed to
it. This spell calls on the physical body’s latent memories
rather than summoning back the deceased’s spirit, so the
corpse must be mostly intact for the spell to function. The
more damage the corpse has taken, the more inaccurate or
patchwork its answers are, and it must have a throat and
mouth to speak at all. If anyone has previously cast this
spell on the corpse in the last week, the spell automatically
fails. The corpse can attempt a Will save to resist answering
the questions using the statistics of the original creature at
its time of death, with the following effects.
Critical Success The target can lie or refuse to answer, and
the target’s spirit haunts you for 24 hours, bothering
you and causing you to be unable to gain any rest for
that time.
Success The target can provide false information or refuse
to answer your questions.
Failure The target must answer truthfully, but its answers
can be brief, cryptic, and repetitive. It can still mislead
you or attempt to stall so that the spell’s duration runs
out before you can ask all your questions.
Critical Failure As failure, but the target’s answers are
more direct and less repetitive, though still cryptic. It
takes a –2 status penalty to Deception checks to deceive
or mislead you.
TANGLE VINE [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
ATTACK CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE PLANT WOOD
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense AC
A vine appears from thin air, flicking from your hand and
lashing itself to the target. Attempt a spell attack roll against
the target.
Critical Success The target gains the immobilized condition
and takes a –10-foot circumstance penalty to its Speeds
for 1 round. It can attempt to Escape against your spell
DC to remove the penalty and the immobilized condition.
Success The target takes a –10-foot circumstance penalty to
its Speeds for 1 round. It can attempt to Escape against
your spell DC to remove the penalty.
Failure The target is unaffected.
Heightened (2nd) The effects last for 2 rounds.
Heightened (4th) The effects last for 1 minute.
TELEKINETIC HAND [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 unattended object of light Bulk or
less
Duration sustained
You create a floating, magical hand, either invisible or
ghostlike, that grasps the target object and levitates it
slowly up to 20 feet in any direction. When you Sustain
the spell, you can move the object an additional 20 feet. If
the object is in the air when the spell ends, the object falls.
Heightened (3rd) You can target an unattended object with a
Bulk of 1 or less.
Heightened (5th) The range increases to 60 feet, and you can
target an unattended object with a Bulk of 1 or less.
Heightened (7th) The range increases to 60 feet, and you can
target an unattended object with a Bulk of 2 or less.
TELEKINETIC HAUL [two-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 unattended object of up to 80 Bulk
with no dimension longer than 20 feet
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You move the target up to 20 feet, potentially suspending it
in midair. When you Sustain the spell, you can do so again,
or you can shift your telekinetic focus to a different eligible
target within range, moving it instead.
TELEKINETIC MANEUVER [two-actions] SPELL 2
ATTACK CONCENTRATE FORCE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
With a rush of telekinetic power, you move a foe or something
they carry. You can attempt to Disarm, Reposition, Shove,
or Trip the target using a spell attack roll instead of an
Athletics check.
TELEKINETIC PROJECTILE [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
ATTACK CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense AC
You hurl a loose, unattended object that is within range
and that has 1 Bulk or less at the target. Make a spell
attack roll against the target’s AC. If you hit, you deal
366
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
2d6 bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing damage—as
appropriate for the object you hurled. No specific traits
or magic properties of the hurled item affect the attack or
the damage.
Critical Success You deal double damage.
Success You deal full damage.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6.
TELEKINETIC STRANGULATION [two-actions] SPELL 6
ATTACK CONCENTRATE INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense AC; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You telekinetically grasp a creature’s throat or similar vital
anatomy with a vicelike grip, forcefully lifting it a few inches
off the ground as it struggles to breathe. Make a ranged
spell attack against the target’s AC. On a hit, you deal
6d12 bludgeoning damage, and the target is immobilized.
While immobilized in this way, it must hold its breath or
begin suffocating (page 429). The first time each round
you Sustain the spell, the target takes 1d12 bludgeoning
damage, remains immobilized, and must continue holding
its breath. The target can attempt to Escape (the Escape
DC is your spell DC, and the attempt is affected by the
incapacitation trait).
TELEKINETIC TANTRUM [three-actions] SPELL 9
ATTACK CONCENTRATE FORCE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 500 feet; Area 100-foot burst
Defense see text; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You launch a barrage of powerful psychokinetic energy that
overpowers creatures, hurls objects, and deals damage.
When you Cast this Spell and the first time each round
you Sustain the spell, you can choose one of the following
effects. You can’t choose the same effect twice in a row.
• Back Off! You hurl up to 15 objects or creatures up to
40 feet in any direction (including up or down). You
can hurl up to a total weight of 40 Bulk per creature
or object. Creatures take bludgeoning damage based
on the distance they moved and land prone, as though
they’d taken falling damage. Creatures that succeed on
a Fortitude save against the spell avoid being moved.
• Hard Rain You pummel all creatures in the area with
debris and objects in the area, dealing 5d10 bludgeoning
damage with a basic Reflex save.
• Psychokinetic Slam Your psychokinetic storm slams
into all creatures in the area. Make a ranged spell attack
roll. All targets you hit take 7d6 force damage and are
stunned 1.
TELEPATHY [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE LINGUISTIC MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Duration 10 minutes
You can communicate telepathically with creatures within
30 feet. Once you establish a connection by communicating
with a creature, the communication is two-way. You can
communicate with only creatures that share a language
with you.
Heightened (6th) You can communicate telepathically with
creatures using shared mental imagery even if you don’t
share a language; telepathy loses the linguistic trait.
TELEPORT SPELL 6
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE TELEPORTATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Cast 10 minutes
Range 100 miles; Targets you and up to 4 targets touched,
either willing creatures or objects roughly the size of a
creature
You and the targets are instantly transported to any
location within range, as long as you can identify the
location precisely both by its position relative to your
starting position and by its appearance (or other identifying
features). Incorrect knowledge of the location’s appearance
usually causes the spell to fail, but it could instead lead to
teleporting to an unwanted location or some other unusual
mishap determined by the GM. Teleport is not precise over
great distances. The targets appear at a distance from the
intended destination equal to roughly 1 percent of the total
distance traveled, in a direction determined by the GM. For
short journeys, this lack of precision is irrelevant, but for
long distances this could be up to 1 mile.
Heightened (7th) You and the other targets can travel to
any location within 1,000 miles.
Heightened (8th) You and the other targets can travel to
any location on the same planet. If you travel more than
1,000 miles, you arrive only 10 miles off target.
Heightened (9th) You and the other targets can travel to
any location on another planet within the same solar
system. If you have accurate knowledge of the location’s
position and appearance, you arrive on the new planet
100 miles off target.
Heightened (10th) As the 9th-rank version, but you and the
other targets can travel to any planet within the same
galaxy.
TEMPORAL BULLETS [reaction] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE FORTUNE MANIPULATE
Traditions occult
Trigger You fail (but not critically fail) an attack roll with a
weapon.
You rewind time and adjust probability to ensure an attack
that just missed still does damage to its intended target.
Roll damage as though you hit the target with the Strike,
but the target only takes half the damage. You are then
immune to temporal bullets for 10 minutes.
THUNDERSTRIKE [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE ELECTRICITY MANIPULATE SONIC
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense basic Reflex
367
You call down a tendril of lightning that cracks with thunder,
dealing 1d12 electricity damage and 1d4 sonic damage to
the target with a basic Reflex save. A target wearing metal
armor or made of metal takes a –1 circumstance bonus to its
save, and if damaged by the spell is clumsy 1 for 1 round.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d12 electricity
and 1d4 sonic.
TIME’S EDGE [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions occult, primal
Area 60-foot line
Defense Fortitude
You refract latent energy from the Dimension of Time into
your current plane in the form of a massive blade. The blade
deals 5d6 slashing damage to all creatures in the area as it
causes time to pass rapidly in a thin slice of their bodies.
Creatures in the area must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is sickened 1.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is
sickened 2.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
TOXIC CLOUD [three-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE DEATH MANIPULATE POISON
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Defense basic Fortitude; Duration 1 minute
You conjure a poisonous fog. This functions as mist, except
the area moves 10 feet away from you each round. A
breathing creature that starts its turn in the area takes 6d8
poison damage with a basic Fortitude save. You can Dismiss
the spell.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d8.
TRANSLATE [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 hour
The target can understand the meaning of a single language
it is hearing or reading when you Cast the Spell. This doesn’t
let it understand codes, language couched in metaphor, and
the like (subject to GM discretion). If the target can hear
multiple languages and knows that, it can choose which
language to understand; otherwise, choose one of the
languages randomly.
Heightened (3rd) The target can also speak the language.
Heightened (4th) You can target up to 10 creatures, and
targets can also speak the language.
TRANSLOCATE [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE TELEPORTATION
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 120 feet
You instantly transport yourself and any items you’re
wearing and holding from your current space to an
unoccupied space within range you can see. If this would
bring another creature with you—even if you’re carrying it in
an extradimensional container—the spell is lost.
Heightened (5th) The range increases to 1 mile. You don’t
need to be able to see your destination, as long as you
have been there in the past and know its relative location
and distance from you. You are then temporarily immune
for 1 hour.
TRUE TARGET [one-action] SPELL 7
CONCENTRATE FORTUNE PREDICTION
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 60 feet; Targets 4 creatures
Duration until the start of your next turn
You delve into the possible futures of the next few seconds
to understand all the ways your foe might avoid harm,
then cast out that vision to those around you. Designate
a creature. The first time each target makes an attack roll
against that creature during true target’s duration, the
attacker rolls twice and uses the better result. The attacker
also ignores circumstance penalties to the attack roll and
any flat check required due to the designated creature being
concealed or hidden.
TRUESIGHT [two-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE REVELATION
Traditions arcane, divine, occult, primal
Duration 10 minutes
You see things within 60 feet as they actually are. The GM
rolls a secret counteract check against any illusion, morph,
or polymorph effect in the area, but only for the purpose of
determining whether you see through it (for instance, if the
check succeeds against a polymorph spell, you can see the
creature’s true form, but you don’t end the polymorph spell).
TRUESPEECH [two-actions] SPELL 5
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 1 hour
The target can understand all words regardless of language
and also speak the languages of other creatures. When in
a mixed group of creatures, each time the target speaks, it
can choose a creature and speak in a language that creature
understands, even if the target doesn’t know what language
that is.
Heightened (7th) The duration is 8 hours.
UNCONTROLLABLE DANCE [two-actions] SPELL 8
CONCENTRATE INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration varies
The target is overcome with an all-consuming urge to dance.
For the duration of the spell, the target is off-guard and
368
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
can’t use reactions. It also can’t use move actions except to
dance, using the Stride action to move up to half its Speed.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The spell’s duration is 3 rounds, and the target must
spend at least 1 action each turn dancing.
Failure The spell’s duration is 1 minute, and the target must
spend at least 2 actions each turn dancing.
Critical Failure The spell’s duration is 1 minute, and the target
must spend all its actions each turn dancing.
UNFETTERED MOVEMENT [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature touched
Duration 10 minutes
You repel hindrances that would affect a creature. While
under this spell’s effect, the target ignores effects that
would give them a circumstance penalty to Speed. When
they attempt to Escape an effect that has them immobilized,
grabbed, or restrained, they automatically succeed unless the
effect is magical and of a higher rank than the unfettered
movement spell.
UNFETTERED PACK [two-actions] SPELL 7
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions primal
Range 30 feet; Targets up to 10 creatures
Duration 1 hour
You free those who travel alongside you from environmental
hindrances. Targets don’t take circumstance penalties to
Speed from vegetation, rubble, winds, or other properties of
the environment, and they ignore difficult terrain from such
environmental properties.
Heightened (9th) The targets also ignore greater difficult
terrain from environmental properties.
VAMPIRIC EXSANGUINATION [two-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE DEATH MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Area 30-foot cone
Defense basic Fortitude
You draw in the blood and life force of other creatures
through your outstretched arms. You deal 12d6 void damage
to living creatures in the area with a basic Fortitude save.
You gain temporary Hit Points equal to half the damage
a single creature takes from this spell; calculate these
temporary Hit Points using the creature that took the most
damage. You lose any remaining temporary Hit Points after
1 minute.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
VAMPIRIC FEAST [two-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE DEATH MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range touch; Targets 1 living creature
Defense basic Fortitude
Your touch leeches the lifeblood out of a target to empower
yourself. You deal 6d6 void damage to the target. You gain
temporary Hit Points equal to half the void damage the target
takes (after applying resistances and the like). You lose any
remaining temporary Hit Points after 1 minute.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
VAPOR FORM [two-actions] SPELL 4
AIR CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE POLYMORPH
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 willing creature
Duration 5 minutes
The target transforms into a vaporous state. In this state, the
target is amorphous. It loses any item bonus to AC and all other
effects and bonuses from armor, and it uses its proficiency
modifier for unarmored defense. It gains resistance 8 to
physical damage and is immune to precision damage. It can’t
cast spells, activate items, or use actions that have the attack
or manipulate trait. It gains a fly Speed of 10 feet and can slip
through tiny cracks. The target can Dismiss the spell.
VEIL OF PRIVACY SPELL 3
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult, primal
Cast 10 minutes
Range touch; Targets 1 creature or object
Duration 8 hours
You erect protective wards that make the target difficult to
detect via magic. Veil of privacy attempts to counteract all
detection, revelation, and scrying effects used against the
target or the target’s gear throughout the duration, counting
cantrips as 1st-rank spells for this purpose. Successfully
counteracting a spell that targets an area or multiple targets
negates the effects for only veil of privacy’s target.
VERDANT CODE [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE PLANT WOOD
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 unattended object with the tech trait
Defense Reflex; Duration 1 minute
You cause flowering vines or other plant matter to grow
from an unattended tech object. Plant matter explodes
from the target object, filling all squares within a 20-foot
burst. Whenever a creature starts its turn in the area, it
takes 2d6 piercing damage (basic Reflex save). On a critical
failure, the creature is immobilized for 1 round or until it
Escapes against your spell DC. The growth covers the
object, requiring a creature to succeed at a DC 5 flat check
to physically access the object for the spell’s duration.
VIBE CHECK [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE EMOTION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions occult
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration 1 round
You share a mood by psychically projecting an intense
emotion into a creature’s mind. The target attempts a Will
save. On a failure, the target experiences your choice of the
369
following emotions, but if you pick anger or joy this spell
gains the incapacitation trait.
• Anger On its next turn, the target spends its first
action to attack the nearest creature, even if it’s an
ally.
• Joy The target can’t take any hostile actions.
• Fear The target becomes frightened 2.
• Sorrow The target is slowed 1 and bursts into tears.
Heightened (4th) The spell affects all creatures in a 20-
foot burst. Each creature must be affected by the same
emotion.
VIBRANT PATTERN [two-actions] SPELL 6
ILLUSION INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE SUBTLE VISUAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 120 feet; Area 10-foot burst
Defense Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You create a pattern of lights that pulses with intensity.
Creatures are dazzled while inside the pattern.
In addition, a creature must attempt a Will saving
throw if it’s inside the pattern when you cast it, enters the
pattern, ends its turn within the pattern, or uses a Seek or
Interact action on the pattern. A creature currently blinded
by the pattern doesn’t need to attempt new saving throws.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature is blinded by the pattern. If it exits
the pattern, it can attempt a new save to recover from
the blinded condition at the end of each of its turns, to
a maximum duration of 1 minute.
Critical Failure The creature is blinded for 1 minute.
VISION OF DEATH [two-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE DEATH EMOTION FEAR MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 living creature
Defense Will
You force the target to see a vision of its own death. It
takes 8d6 mental damage with a Will save. If the target
is reduced to 0 HP by this spell, its vision becomes reality
and kills it instantly.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half damage and is frightened 1.
Failure The target takes full damage and is frightened 2.
Critical Failure The target takes double damage, is
frightened 4, and is fleeing for as long as it’s frightened.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
VITAL BEACON SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE HEALING MANIPULATE VITALITY
Traditions divine, primal
Cast 1 minute
Duration until your next daily preparations
Vitality radiates outward from you, allowing others to
supplicate and receive healing. Once per round, either
you or an ally can use an Interact action to supplicate and
lay hands upon you to regain Hit Points. Each time the
beacon heals someone, it decreases in strength. It restores
4d10 Hit Points to the first creature, 4d8 Hit Points to the
second, 4d6 Hit Points to the third, and 4d4 Hit Points to
the fourth, after which the spell ends. You can have only
one vital beacon active at a time.
Heightened (+1) The beacon restores one additional die of
HP each time it heals, using the normal die size for that
step.
VITALITY LASH [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE VITALITY
Traditions divine, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature that is undead or
otherwise has void healing
Defense Fortitude
You demolish the target’s corrupted essence with energy
from Creation’s Forge. You deal 2d6 vitality damage with
a basic Fortitude save. If the creature critically fails the
save, it’s also enfeebled 1 until the start of your next turn.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d6.
VOID SCOUR [two-actions] SPELL 7
CONCENTRATE DARKNESS MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions divine, primal
Range 500 feet; Area 60-foot burst
THE SUMMON TRAIT
Spells with the summon trait can conjure creatures,
typically ones with a particular trait. Such creatures can
be found in Alien Core and similar books. Unless noted
otherwise, the creature must be common, it gains the
summoned trait (page 299), and it must appear in an
unoccupied space in range large enough to contain it.
The highest level of creature the spell can summon
depends on the rank of the spell, as listed below. The
spell can still summon a creature of a lower level if you
so choose. These rules apply only to spells that have
the summon trait; other spells that call or conjure items
or beings but that don’t have the trait, like summon
instrument, work as explained in the spell.
Spell Rank Maximum Creature Level
1st –1
2nd 1
3rd 2
4th 3
5th 5
6th 7
7th 9
8th 11
9th 13
10th 15
370
7
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
Defense Reflex
A well of desolate darkness scours all life, dealing 10d10
void damage to all living creatures in the area. Each
creature in the area must attempt a Reflex save. If void
scour overlaps with an area of magical light or affects a
creature affected by magical light, void scour attempts to
counteract the light effect.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and 1d6 persistent
void damage, and becomes drained 1.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and 2d6
persistent void damage, and becomes drained 2.
Heightened (+1) Increase the initial void damage by 2d10.
The persistent void damage increases by 1d6 on a
failure, or by 2d6 on critical failure.
VOID SEED [two-actions] SPELL 2
MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions divine, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 living creature
Defense Will; Duration 1 minute
You plant a seed of entropy within a creature. The target
gains the void healing ability (page 456). If the target
would be healed by a non-void effect with the healing trait,
it takes damage instead. An unwilling target can attempt a
Will save to negate the effects.
Heightened (5th) You can target up to six living creatures.
VOID VESSEL [three-actions] SPELL 8
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, occult, primal
Range 30 feet; Targets you and up to 10 willing creatures
Duration 8 hours
You grant creatures the ability to survive in a vacuum.
Targeted creatures gain the cosmic trait and sprout wings
of shimmering energy that grant a fly Speed of 30 feet.
The wings function only in a vacuum.
VOID WARP [two-actions] CANTRIP 1
CANTRIP CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 living creature
Defense Fortitude
You call upon the Void to harm life force. The target takes
2d4 void damage with a basic Fortitude save. On a critical
failure, the target is also enfeebled 1 until the start of your
next turn.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 1d4.
VOID WHISPERS [two-actions] SPELL 3
AUDITORY CONCENTRATE INCAPACITATION LINGUISTIC MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions divine, occult
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration varies
The target hears ominous sounds containing unspeakable
mysteries from beyond the stars that disorient its mind.
371
Void Vessel
The target attempts a Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The target hears the strange whispers, becoming
stupefied 1 for 1 round.
Failure The target begins to wander aimlessly, using each
action to Step in a random direction. When it moves,
the target takes the safest route and doesn’t enter
hazardous terrain. The spell has a duration of 1 minute
or until a creature uses a hostile action against the
target.
Critical Failure As failure, except the target babbles
incoherently. Any creature that begins its turn within
20 feet of the target must attempt a Will saving throw.
On a failure, it must use its first action on its next turn
to Step in a random direction and becomes immune to
this spell for 24 hours. This is an incapacitation effect.
WAILS OF THE DAMNED [two-actions] SPELL 9
AUDITORY CONCENTRATE DEATH MANIPULATE VOID
Traditions divine, occult
Area 40-foot emanation
Defense Fortitude
You howl a lament of damned souls. Each living enemy
in the area takes 8d10 void damage depending on its
Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes full damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is drained 1d4.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is
drained 4.
WALL OF FIRE [three-actions] SPELL 4
CONCENTRATE FIRE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet
Duration 1 minute
You raise a blazing wall that burns creatures passing
through it. You create either a 5-foot-thick wall of flame
in a straight line up to 60 feet long and 10 feet high,
or a 5-foot-thick, 10-foot-radius ring of flame with the
same height. The wall stands vertically in either form; if
you wish, the wall can be of a shorter length or height.
Everything on each side of the wall is concealed from
creatures on the opposite side. Any creature that crosses
the wall or is occupying the wall’s area at the start of its
turn takes 4d6 fire damage.
Heightened (+1) The fire damage increases by 1d6.
WALL OF FORCE [three-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE FORCE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 30 feet
Duration 1 minute
You form an invisible wall of pure magical force up to 50
feet long and up to 20 feet high. The wall has no discernible
thickness. You must create the wall in an unbroken open
space so its edges don’t pass through any creatures or
objects, or the spell is lost. The wall has AC 10, Hardness
30, and 60 Hit Points, and it’s immune to critical hits and
precision damage. The wall blocks physical effects from
passing through it, and because it’s made of force, it blocks
incorporeal and ethereal creatures as well. Teleportation
effects can pass through the barrier, as can visual effects
(since the wall is invisible).
Wall of force is immune to effects of its rank or lower
that attempt to counteract it. The wall is automatically
destroyed by a disintegrate spell of any rank.
Heightened (+2) The Hit Points of the wall increase by 20.
WALL OF ICE [three-actions] SPELL 5
COLD CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE WATER
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet
Duration 1 minute
You sculpt an ice barrier that blocks sight and, once
shattered, freezes foes. You create either a 1-foot-thick
wall of ice in a straight line up to 60 feet long and 10 feet
high (the wall doesn’t have to be vertical, but it must be
anchored on both sides to a solid surface) or a 1-foot-thick,
10-foot-radius hemisphere of ice. The ice that makes up
the wall is opaque. If you wish, the wall can be of a smaller
length, height, or radius. You must create the wall in an
unbroken open space so its edges don’t pass through any
creatures or objects, or the spell is lost.
Each 10-foot-by-10-foot section of the wall has AC 10,
Hardness 10, and 40 Hit Points, and it’s immune to critical
hits, cold damage, and precision damage. A section also
has weakness 15 to fire; a section of the wall destroyed
by fire melts, evaporating into water and steam. A section
destroyed by means other than fire leaves behind a
chilling mass of ice that is difficult terrain and deals 2d6
cold damage to any creature passing through it.
Heightened (+2) The Hit Points of each section of the wall
increase by 10, and the cold damage dealt to creatures
crossing a destroyed section increases by 1d6.
WALL OF PLASMA [three-actions] SPELL 6
CONCENTRATE ELECTRICITY FIRE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet
Duration 1 minute
You shape a wall of crackling plasma that burns creatures
passing through it. You create either a 5-foot-thick wall
of plasma in a straight line up to 60 feet long and 10 feet
high, or a 5-foot-thick, 10-foot-radius ring of plasma with
the same height. The wall stands vertically in either form;
if you wish, the wall can be of a shorter length or height.
Everything on each side of the wall is concealed from
creatures on the opposite side. Any creature that crosses
the wall or is occupying the wall’s area at the start of its
turn takes 4d6 fire damage and 2d6 persistent electricity
damage.
Heightened (+1) The persistent electricity damage
increases by 1d6.
372
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
WALL OF STEEL [three-actions] SPELL 7
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE METAL
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet
Duration 1 minute
You shape a wall of solid steel. You create a 4-inch-thick
wall of steel up to 120 feet long and 20 feet high. You
can shape the wall’s path, placing each 5 feet of the wall
on the border between squares. The wall doesn’t need to
stand vertically, so you can use it to form a bridge or set
of stairs, for example. You must conjure the wall in an
unbroken open space so its edges don’t pass through any
creatures or objects, or the spell is lost.
Each 10-foot-by-10-foot section of the wall has AC 10,
Hardness 18, and 60 Hit Points, and it’s immune to critical
hits and precision damage. A destroyed section of the wall
can be moved through, but the rubble created from it is
difficult terrain.
Heightened (+1) The Hit Points of each section of the wall
increase by 15.
WALL OF STONE [three-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE EARTH MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet
You shape a wall of solid stone. You create a 1-inch-thick
wall of stone up to 120 feet long, and 20 feet high. You
can shape the wall’s path, placing each 5 feet of the wall
on the border between squares. The wall doesn’t need to
stand vertically, so you can use it to form a bridge or set
of stairs, for example. You must conjure the wall in an
unbroken open space so its edges don’t pass through any
creatures or objects, or the spell is lost.
Each 10-foot-by-10-foot section of the wall has AC 10,
Hardness 14, and 50 Hit Points, and it’s immune to critical
hits and precision damage. A destroyed section of the wall
can be moved through, but the rubble created from it is
difficult terrain.
Heightened (+2) The Hit Points of each section of the wall
increase by 15.
WALL OF THORNS [three-actions] SPELL 3
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE PLANT WOOD
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 60 feet
Duration 1 minute
You grow a wall of thorny brambles from the ground. You
create a 5-foot-thick wall of brambles and thorns in a
straight line up to 60 feet long and 10 feet high. You must
create the wall in an unbroken open space so its edges
don’t pass through any creatures or objects, or the spell is
lost. The wall stands vertically. If you wish, the wall can
be of a shorter length or height. Everything on each side
of the wall has cover from creatures on the opposite side,
and the wall’s spaces are difficult terrain. For every move
action a creature uses to enter at least one of the wall’s
spaces, that creature takes 3d4 piercing damage.
Each 10-foot-by-10-foot section of the wall has AC 10,
Hardness 10, and 20 Hit Points. It’s immune to critical hits
and precision damage. A destroyed section can be moved
through freely.
Heightened (+1) The Hit Points of each section of the wall
increase by 5, and the piercing damage increases by 1d4.
WALL OF WIND [three-actions] SPELL 3
AIR CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, primal
Range 120 feet
Duration 1 minute
You create a barrier of gusting winds that hinders
anything moving through it. The wall of swirling winds is
5 feet thick, 60 feet long, and 30 feet high. The wall stands
vertically, but you can shape its path. Though the wall of
wind distorts the air, it does not hamper sight. The wall
has the following effects.
• Ammunition from physical ranged attacks—such as
bolts, bullets, grenades, and other objects of similar
size—can’t pass through the wall. Attacks with bigger
ranged weapons, such as singing spears, take a –2
circumstance penalty to their attack rolls if their paths
pass through the wall. Massive ranged weapons and
spell effects that don’t create physical objects pass
through the wall with no penalty.
• The wall is difficult terrain to creatures attempting to
move overland through it. Gases, including creatures
in vapor form, can’t pass through the wall.
• A creature that attempts to fly through the wall using
a move action must attempt a Fortitude save.
Critical Success The creature can move through the
wall normally this turn.
Success The flying creature can move through the
wall this turn, but the wall is difficult terrain.
Failure The wall stops the movement of the flying
creature, and any remaining movement from its
current action is wasted.
Critical Failure As failure, and the creature is
pushed 10 feet away from the wall.
WARP MIND [two-actions] SPELL 7
CONCENTRATE EMOTION INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will
You scramble a creature’s mental faculties and sensory
input. The target must attempt a Will saving throw.
Regardless of the result of that save, the target is then
temporarily immune for 10 minutes. Warp mind’s effects
happen instantly, so dispel magic and other effects that
counteract spells can’t counteract them. However, wish
rituals and abilities that can remove non-magical effects
can still counteract the effects.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target spends the first action on its next turn
with the confused condition.
373
Failure The target is confused for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The target is confused permanently.
WATER BREATHING SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE WATER
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Cast 1 minute
Range 30 feet; Targets up to 5 creatures
Duration 1 hour
The targets can breathe underwater.
Heightened (3rd) The duration is 8 hours.
Heightened (4th) The duration is until your next daily
preparations.
WATER WALK [two-actions] SPELL 2
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE WATER
Traditions arcane, divine, primal
Range touch; Targets 1 creature
Duration 10 minutes
The target can walk on the surface of water and other
liquids without falling through. It can go underwater if it
wishes, but in that case it must Swim normally. This spell
doesn’t grant the ability to breathe underwater.
Heightened (4th) The spell’s range increases to 30 feet,
the duration increases to 1 hour, and you can target up
to 10 creatures.
WAVE OF DESPAIR [two-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE EMOTION MANIPULATE MENTAL
Traditions arcane, occult
Area 30-foot cone
Defense Will; Duration 1 or more rounds
You inflict despair on creatures in the area. The effects for
each creature are determined by its Will save.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success For 1 round, the creature can’t use reactions and
must attempt another save at the start of its turn; on a
failure, it is slowed 1 for that turn as it sobs uncontrollably.
Failure As success, but the duration is 1 minute.
Critical Failure As failure, and the creature is automatically
slowed 1 for 1 minute.
Heightened (7th) The area increases to a 60-foot cone.
WAVE OF WARNING [two-actions] SPELL 5
CONCENTRATE EMOTION FEAR MANIPULATE MENTAL NONLETHAL
Traditions divine, primal
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature, plus any number of
additional creatures
Defense Will
You deter enemies with a wave of hostile intent. The
target takes 7d8 nonlethal mental damage, and the target
must attempt a Will save. The psychic energy then arcs to
another creature within 30 feet of the first target, jumps
to another creature within 30 feet of that target, and so
on. You can end the wave at any point. You can’t target the
same creature more than once, and you must have line of
effect to all targets. Roll the damage only once, and apply
it to each target (halving or doubling as appropriate for its
saving throw outcome).
Critical Success The target creature is unaffected, and the
wave ends with that target.
Success The target takes half damage.
Failure The target takes full damage and is frightened 1.
Critical Failure The target takes double damage and is
frightened 2.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d8.
WEIGHT OF AGES [two-actions] SPELL 4
ATTACK CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, occult
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will; Duration 1 minute
You burden a creature’s body and mind with the pains and
sorrows of a lifetime. The target takes 3d8 bludgeoning
damage and 3d8 mental damage and must attempt a Will
saving throw.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half damage.
Failure The target takes full damage and is encumbered
for 1 round.
Critical Failure The target takes double damage and is
encumbered for 1 minute.
Heightened (+1) The mental damage increases by 2d8.
WISP ALLY [two-actions] SPELL 1
CONCENTRATE LIGHT MANIPULATE
Traditions divine, primal
Range 120 feet; Target one creature
Defense Will; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You summon a Tiny bouncing wisp of light that easily
distracts even the most determined of combatants. The
wisp floats near your target. A wisp doesn’t take up space,
grant flanking, or have any other attributes a creature
would. The wisp generates bright light in a 10-foot radius.
When you Cast the Spell and each time you Sustain the
spell, your wisp attempts to distract your target, which
must succeed at a Will save or become off-guard until the
start of your next turn. A creature who critically succeeds
becomes immune to wisp ally for 1 hour.
Heightened (+1) You create one additional wisp, allowing
you to choose a different target. Each wisp you create
must have a different target, and all of them attempt to
distract their targets at the same time when you cast or
Sustain this spell.
X-RAY VISION [two-actions] SPELL 6
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE
Traditions arcane, divine, occult
Duration 10 minutes
You empower yourself to see through most materials and
walls within 60 feet. Your sight is blocked by 2 feet of
wood or plastic, 1 foot of stone, 2 inches of common metal,
or any amount of lead or any starmetal, and you can only
see in black and white.
374
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
MYSTIC EPIPHANY SPELLS
Mystics channel their connection into powerful revelations
with the following spells.
AKASHIC
AKASHIC FOUNT [one-action] FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE FOCUS MANIPULATE MYSTIC
Range 500 feet; Target 1 bonded creature
Duration 1 minute
You open the target’s mind to the Akashic Record to draw
in feelings, memories, and knowledge contained within
that astral repository. Choose one Lore skill. The target
temporarily gains the same proficiency rank in that skill as
your proficiency rank in Occultism.
AKASHIC ASSISTANT [two-actions] FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE FOCUS MANIPULATE MYSTIC
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 bonded creature
Duration 1 minute
You summon a projection of one of the etheric entities that
work as librarians and scribes within the Akashic Record to
assist your target with a task. The projection appears floating
next to the target and doesn’t occupy any space. The assistant
prepares to Aid the target as though it had its own reaction.
The assistant uses a bonus equal to your modifier in Occultism
for its rolls to Aid, regardless of what skill it is Aiding with.
On each of your turns, the assistant prepares to Aid its target
again. You can use a free action, which has the concentrate
trait, to redirect the assistant to a different creature, changing
the target of the spell. Otherwise, the assistant keeps aiding
the same creature for the duration of the spell.
DATA DRAIN [two-actions] FOCUS 6
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE FOCUS MANIPULATE MYSTIC
Range 60 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will
You leech memories and conscious thoughts from the
target’s mind and convert them into astral data that you can
record and analyze as easily as if the target’s psyche were
laid out in ribbons of computer code. This deals 8d6 mental
damage with a basic Will save.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half damage and is stupefied 1
until the end of your current turn.
Failure The target takes full damage and is stupefied 1 until the
end of your next turn. You Recall Knowledge about the target.
Critical Failure As failure, except the target takes double
damage and is stupefied 1 for 1 minute.
Heightened (+1) The mental damage increases by 2d6.
ELEMENTAL
ELEMENTAL WEAPON [three-actions] FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE FOCUS MANIPULATE MYSTIC
Range 30 feet; Target 1 willing bonded creature
Duration 10 minutes
You create an advanced, martial, or simple weapon out
of elemental energy that materializes in the hands of a
bonded creature. Select an elemental trait for the created
weapon: air, earth, fire, metal, water, or wood. The weapon
is tactical grade and comes fully charged and loaded
with basic ammunition. It cannot be made of any special
materials.
The weapon has one fewer upgrade slot but can be
upgraded with any upgrades you hold in your hands as a
locus when casting this spell, which become inert until the
spell ends. The weapon deals damage as normal plus 1d4
additional damage based on the chosen trait: electricity
for air, bludgeoning for earth, fire for fire, acid for metal,
cold for water, or poison for wood.
Heightened (2nd) You can create an advanced weapon.
Heightened (5th) You can create a superior weapon.
Heightened (6th) You can create an elite weapon.
Heightened (8th) You can create an ultimate weapon.
Heightened (9th) You can create a paragon weapon.
ELEMENTAL BARRIER [two-actions] FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON FOCUS MANIPULATE MYSTIC
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 bonded creature
Duration 1 minute
A barrier of protective elemental energy appears around
the target, bolstering their defense. Select an elemental
trait: air, earth, fire, metal, water, or wood. Elemental
barrier gains the trait you chose. The target gets a +1
circumstance bonus to AC. While the spell is in effect, the
target can use the Shield Block reaction as if the elemental
barrier was a raised shield.
The barrier has Hardness 6 and 40 HP. It has Resistance
2 to one damage type based on the chosen trait: electricity
or sonic for air, bludgeoning or piercing for earth, acid or
slashing for metal, fire for fire, cold for water, or poison for
wood. Unlike a normal Shield Block, you can use the spell’s
reaction against spells with the chosen elemental trait cast
against the creature.
Heightened (5th) The barrier has 48 HP.
Heightened (6th) The barrier has Hardness 8 and 52 HP.
Heightened (7th) The barrier has Hardness 8 and 60 HP.
Heightened (8th) The barrier has Hardness 10 and 68 HP.
Heightened (9th) The barrier has Hardness 10 and 80 HP.
ELEMENTAL NOVA [two-actions] FOCUS 6
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE FOCUS MANIPULATE MYSTIC
Range 240 feet; Area 20-foot burst
Defense basic Reflex
A roaring blast of elemental energy erupts around your
targets. Select an elemental trait: air, earth, fire, metal,
water, or wood. Elemental nova gains the trait you choose.
Elemental nova deals 11d6 damage based on the chosen
trait: electricity or sonic for air, bludgeoning or piercing for
earth, acid or slashing for metal, fire for fire, cold for water,
or poison for wood.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d6.
375
HEALING
INFUSION [one-action] TO [three-actions] FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE FOCUS MANIPULATE MYSTIC VITALITY VOID
Range varies; Targets 1 willing bonded creature
You infuse the target’s essence with healing energy. If the
target is a willing creature, you restore 1d6 Hit Points.
The target is then temporarily immune for 10 minutes.
The number of actions you spend when Casting this Spell
determines its targets, range, area, and other parameters.
[one-action] The spell has a range of touch.
[two-actions] The spell has a range of 30 feet. If you’re healing a
creature, increase the Hit Points restored by 6.
[three-actions] You heal all bonded creatures in a 30-foot emanation.
Heightened (+1) The amount of healing increases by 1d6,
and the extra healing for the 2-action version increases
by 6.
VITALITY NOVA [two-actions] FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE FOCUS MANIPULATE MYSTIC VITALITY
Range 100 feet; Area 30-foot burst
You release a burst of condensed vitality energy, causing
a radiant explosion of healing light. Spend any number of
Hit Points from your vitality network. Vitality nova heals all
creatures in the area 1 Hit Point for every 2 Hit Points spent
to cast it. Treat this healing as a use of Transfer Vitality.
• If you spend 20 or more Hit Points and the spell was
cast in an area of magical darkness, vitality nova
attempts to counteract the darkness effect.
• If you spend 40 or more Hit Points, creatures healed
by the spell can attempt a DC 10 flat check to end
persistent bleed damage.
• If you spend 60 or more Hit Points, end all persistent
damage on creatures healed by this spell.
VITAL REBIRTH [reaction] FOCUS 6
UNCOMMON FOCUS MANIPULATE MYSTIC VITALITY
Trigger A bonded creature within range would die.
Range 60 feet; Target the triggering creature
Your network catches the soul of a bonded creature before
it departs and forcefully resuscitates their body with a jolt
of energy. You prevent the target from dying and Transfer
Vitality to the triggering ally. The target becomes immune
to vital rebirth for 24 hours. Vital rebirth has no effect if the
triggering effect was disintegrate, promession, or a death
effect. You must have at least 1 Hit Point in your vitality
network to cast this spell.
RHYTHM
ANTHEM [one-action] FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE EMOTION FOCUS MANIPULATE MENTAL MYSTIC
Area 60-foot emanation
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You compose the tangle of cosmic melodies into an anthem
for your bonded companions. All bonded creatures in the
area gain a +1 status bonus to attack rolls and damage rolls,
and also gain a +1 status bonus to saves against effects that
cause fascinated or confused.
SHUFFLE REPEAT [one-action] FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE EMOTION FOCUS MANIPULATE MENTAL MYSTIC
Range 60 feet; Target 1 bonded creature
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You shuffle the cosmic mix to repeat one creature’s personal
anthem, further motivating and empowering them. The
target’s Strikes deal an additional die of sonic damage and
the target gains a +1 status bonus to Will saves and Will DCs.
REMIX [two-actions] FOCUS 6
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE EMOTION FOCUS MANIPULATE MENTAL MYSTIC
Range 60 feet; Target 1 bonded creature
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You remix the Song of the Spheres into a catchy dance beat.
The target becomes quickened and can use the extra action
to Interact, Stride, or Step.
Heightened (7th) You can target up to 6 bonded creatures.
SHADOW
SHADOW SNAP [two-actions] FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE FOCUS MANIPULATE MYSTIC SHADOW
Range 30 feet; Target 1 creature
Defense AC; Duration sustained up to 1 minute
With a snap of your fingers, you command the target’s
shadow to either attack or stalk its body. If you command
it to attack, attempt a spell attack roll against the target’s
AC, dealing 1d10 cold damage on a hit (or double damage
on a critical hit). This attack uses and contributes to your
multiple attack penalty.
If you command the shadow to stalk, attempt a spell
attack roll against the target’s AC the first time the target
uses a manipulate action or a move action, makes a ranged
attack, or leaves a square during a move action it’s using;
dealing 1d10 cold damage on a hit. If the attack is a critical
hit, the shadow disrupts that action.
Each time you Sustain the spell, you can choose to either
attack the target or command the shadow to stalk the
target until the end of your next turn.
Heightened (+1) The cold damage increases by 1d10.
CLOYING SHADOWS [two-actions] FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE FOCUS MANIPULATE MYSTIC SHADOW
Range 60 feet; Targets 10-foot burst
Defense Fortitude
You command creatures’ shadows to writhe and write and
rebel against their owners. Each creature in the area takes
6d6 cold damage.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target takes half damage.
Failure The target takes full damage and is sickened 1.
Critical Failure The target takes double damage and is
sickened 2.
Heightened (+1) The cold damage increases by 2d6.
376
7 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
SHADOW PRISON [two-actions] FOCUS 6
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE EMOTION FOCUS INCAPACITATION MANIPULATE
MENTAL MYSTIC SHADOW
Range 120 feet; Targets 1 creature
Defense Will
You cause memories of the target’s resentment, regret, and
other negative feelings to engorge its shadow until it grows
large enough to swallow them whole. The target attempts a
Will saving throw. The target is then immune to this spell for
1 minute.
Critical Success The target is unaffected.
Success The target resists the spell before it’s completely
swallowed up, but shadowy tendrils cling to it, making
the target slowed 1 for 1 round.
Failure The target is swallowed by its own shadow until the
beginning of your next turn. The target is invisible and
paralyzed, cannot experience or interact with the outside
world, and cannot be targeted by any attacks or other
effects.
Critical Failure As failure, except the target is swallowed
for 1 minute.
OTHER EPIPHANY SPELLS
ELDRITCH BOND [two-actions] FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE FOCUS MANIPULATE MYSTIC POLYMORPH
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing bonded creature
Duration 1 minute
You channel mysterious power from beyond the edges of
the known universe to infuse a bonded creature with the
essence of an eldritch creature. You grant the target up to
two of the following abilities:
• Darkvision
• Mental resistance equal to half the creature’s level
(minimum 1)
• A tentacle unarmed attack that deals 1d8 bludgeoning
damage
• A stinger unarmed attack that deals 1d6 acid damage
and has the agile and finesse traits
• A beam ranged unarmed attack with a range increment
of 40 feet that deals 1d6 mental damage
• 10-foot reach on all melee attacks (including the above)
• Melee strikes (including those above) affect incorporeal
creatures as if they had the ghost killer upgrade.
Heightened (3rd) The damage dealt by the attacks increases
to 2 dice.
Heightened (5th) Increase the number of targets to 5 targets.
The damage dealt by the attacks increases to 2 dice.
Heightened (6th) Increase the number of targets to 5 targets.
The damage dealt by the attacks increases to 3 dice.
Heightened (9th) Increase the number of targets to 5 targets.
The damage dealt by the attacks increases to 4 dice.
VITALITY WEB [two-actions] FOCUS 8
UNCOMMON CONCENTRATE FOCUS MYSTIC VITALITY
Range 120 feet; Targets 2 bonded creatures
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
Your network briefly manifests as a web of vital energy
connecting members of your bond. Each target gains fast
healing 8. When you Cast the Spell and the first time each
round you Sustain the Spell, the targets gain 16 temporary
Hit Points, which last for 1 round.
Heightened (+1) The number of targets and the fast healing
increases by 1 and the temporary Hit Points increases by 2.
WILD BOND [two-actions] FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON FOCUS MYSTIC POLYMORPH
Cast [two-actions] manipulate
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 willing bonded creature
Duration 1 minute
You tap into the Universal code to infuse the target with the
essence of another living creature and grant them one of
the following abilities:
• A burrow Speed of 15 feet
• A climb Speed of 20 feet
• A fly Speed of 20 feet
• A swim Speed of 25 feet
• A Speed of 40 feet
• A jaw unarmed attack that deals 1d8 piercing damage
• A claw unarmed attack that deals 1d6 slashing damage
and has the agile and finesse traits
• Darkvision
Heightened (3rd) The damage dealt by the attacks
increases to 2 dice.
Heightened (5th) Increase the number of targets to 5
targets. The damage dealt by the attacks increases to
2 dice.
Heightened (6th) Increase the number of targets to 5
targets. The damage dealt by the attacks increases to
3 dice.
Heightened (9th) Increase the number of targets to 5
targets. The damage dealt by the attacks increases to
4 dice.
WITCHWARPER WARP
SPELLS
Witchwarpers alter fate, control time, and bend reality with
the following spells.
ANALYST
WARP PROBABILITY [reaction] FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON ANCHORING CONCENTRATE FOCUS FORTUNE WITCHWARPER
Trigger You fail an attack roll or saving throw.
You open your mind to read the underlying probability of the
multiverse. Reroll the failed check and take the better result.
ALTERNATE OUTCOME [reaction] FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON ANCHORING CONCENTRATE FOCUS MISFORTUNE WITCHWARPER
Trigger A creature in your quantum field would succeed (but
not critically succeed) a saving throw.
Range within your quantum field; Targets the triggering
creature
377
You reject the outcome for a being in your current existence
and replace it with that of a different reality. The target must
reroll the triggering saving throw and use the worse result.
QUANTUM ANALYSIS [one-action] FOCUS 6
UNCOMMON ANCHORING CONCENTRATE FOCUS FORTUNE MENTAL
WITCHWARPER
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You see the probability equations all around you, tracing each
variable to every possible conclusion. Creatures you target
during this spell’s duration can’t benefit from circumstance
bonuses to AC due to cover against your attacks. You also
ignore circumstance penalties to the attack roll and any flat
check required due to the creature being concealed, hidden, or
behind cover. You can cast spells that target creatures within
your quantum field even if you don’t have line of sight to them.
The first time after casting this spell when you make an
attack roll against a creature within your quantum field
during quantum analysis’ duration, you roll twice and use
the better result. This effect has the fortune trait.
ANOMALY
WARP TERRAIN [one-action] FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON ANCHORING CONCENTRATE FOCUS WITCHWARPER
You materialize terrain features from another reality within
your quantum field. Choose one of the following effects, which
lasts as long as your quantum field remains active, until you
cast warp terrain again, or until you dismiss this spell.
• You cause the area of your quantum field to become
difficult terrain. You determine the appearance of the
warped terrain. You and your allies can move through
the warped terrain normally and can Take Cover using
its features.
• You suppress terrain in your field, turning any existing
difficult or greater difficult terrain in your quantum field
to normal terrain. This does not apply to effects that
cause a creature to count squares as difficult terrain
(such as a solarian’s graviton-attunement attacks). If
you’re attempting to suppress terrain created by a
spell or other magical effect, you must successfully
counteract the effect.
Heightened (3rd) You can choose to have the quantum
field fill with fog, smoke, or another phenomenon that
obscures vision. This functions as mist. You can instead
suppress one of these effects within your quantum field.
Heightened (6th) You can choose to have the quantum
field become greater difficult terrain, or suppress greater
difficult terrain.
WARP WORLD [two-actions] FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON ANCHORING CONCENTRATE FOCUS MANIPULATE WITCHWARPER
Range within your quantum field; Area 10-foot burst
Defense Fortitude; Duration 1 round
You recreate a powerful event from another world in your
current reality. All creatures in the area must attempt a
Fortitude save. The damage and effects caused by warp
world are determined by rolling 1d6, as detailed on the
following table.
Heightened (+1) Damage increases by 1d12, persistent
damage increases by 1d6.
WARP WORLD EFFECTS
D6 Effect
1
Supernova: An exploding sun deals 4d12 fire
damage and 1d6 persistent electrical damage. On a
critical failure, creatures take double damage and
are dazzled for 1 round.
2
Earthquake: The ground shakes, dealing 4d12
bludgeoning damage. On a critical failure, creatures
take double damage and are knocked prone.
3
Inferno: A volcanic eruption or firestorm deals
4d12 fire damage. Everything within the aura
is concealed by smoke for 1 round. On a critical
failure, creatures take double damage and are
sickened 1.
4
Eldritch Storm: A howling tempest of psychic
energy deals 4d12 sonic damage and 1d6 persistent
mental damage. On a critical failure, creatures take
double damage and are confused for 1 round.
5
Flash Freeze: A storm from an arctic planet deals
4d12 cold damage. On a critical failure, creatures
take double damage and are slowed 1 for 1 round.
6
Radioactive Blast: The echo of a nuclear reaction
deals 4d12 bludgeoning damage and 1d6 persistent
fire damage. On a critical failure, creatures take
double damage, they take 1d6 persistent poison
damage and are fatigued as long as the persistent
poison damage lasts.
PARALLEL FORMS [two-actions] FOCUS 6
UNCOMMON ANCHORING CONCENTRATE FOCUS MANIPULATE WITCHWARPER
Duration sustained up to 1 minute
You split yourself into two versions with different fates.
Each version of you Strides from your current space, then
takes a single action. If the actions are both attacks, they
must target a different creature and use the same multiple
attack penalty, counting as one attack toward your multiple
attack penalty. Each round you Sustain the spell, your
parallel forms share actions and use the same bonuses and
penalties, including your multiple attack penalty. You apply
damage dealt to either form to your current Hit Points, but
if both forms take damage from the same effect such as
from an attack or spell with area damage, you only apply
the damage once. In the case of an effect with a save that
affects both forms, you take the worse result and apply it
to both forms. When the spell ends, you choose one of the
two forms as your actual form and the other version of you
disappears. The spell automatically ends if you are reduced
to 0 Hit Points.
Heightened (8th) Your parallel forms are quickened and can
use the extra action to Step, Stride, or Strike.
378
7
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
Spell Lists
Spells
Focus Spells
Rituals
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
GAP INFLUENCED
WARP PRESENCE [reaction] FOCUS 1
UNCOMMON ANCHORING CONCENTRATE FOCUS WITCHWARPER
Trigger An enemy targets you with a Strike or spell attack.
Range 120 feet; Target the triggering enemy
Defense Will; Duration varies
Your presence flickers in the target’s mind as though you
had disappeared. The triggering creature attempts a Will
save.
Success You become concealed against that creature’s
attacks for 1 round, including the triggering attack. If
you were already concealed, you become undetected
instead.
Failure The triggering attack misses. You are undetected
to the triggering creature for 1 round. If you use a
hostile action, this effect ends after that hostile action
is completed.
Critical Failure The triggering attack misses. You are
undetected to that creature for 1 minute. If you use a
hostile action, this effect ends after that hostile action
is completed.
FORGET [two-actions] FOCUS 4
UNCOMMON ANCHORING CONCENTRATE FOCUS WITCHWARPER
Range 30 feet; Targets 1 creature or object in your quantum
field
Duration 10 minutes
You force creatures to temporarily forget about the target.
The target is invisible while within your quantum field, and
memories of the target are temporarily erased or rewritten.
This makes it undetected to all creatures.
The first time an enemy attempts to locate the target
(such as by Seeking) or uses Recall Knowledge to recall
information about the target, they take 8d8 mental damage
with a basic Will save as they suffer painful migraines and
mental static while trying to process information about
the missing target. On a critical failure the enemy is also
confused for 1 round.
Heightened (+1) The damage increases by 2d8.
REALITY WIPE [two-actions] FOCUS 6
UNCOMMON ANCHORING CONCENTRATE FOCUS WITCHWARPER
You reset reality within your quantum field, purging
the area of all forms of data. All written information and
computer data in the area is subject to the effects of delete.
You attempt to counteract any spell whose area or targets
are in your quantum field, as dispel magic. If the counteract
attempt succeeds, it prevents only the portion of the spell
inside your quantum field (so if the spell also has targets
outside your quantum field, or part of its area is beyond
your quantum field, those targets or that area are affected
normally).
Creatures in your quantum field take 8d6 spirit damage
(basic Will save). Creatures who critically fail are stupefied
2 for 1 minute.
379
Parallel Forms