98
3
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
The rules within each class allow you to bring a wealth of
character concepts to life. Perhaps you want to create an
observant but impulsive mystic who can see the pain in
someone’s eyes but can’t follow the instructions to bake
them a cake. Or perhaps you want your character to be a
bullet-spewing veteran who shrugs off bullets when she
activates her force field. Maybe they’ll be a cool-headed
witchwarper whose far-off gaze seems to look past our
reality into potential timelines long lost. The choices you
make for your character within their class—such as a
mystic’s choice of connection, a soldier’s choice of fighting
style, or a witchwarper’s anchor—bring these visions to life
within the context of the rules and the world.
The entries on the pages that follow describe six classes
in Starfinder. Each entry contains the information you
need to play a character of that class, as well as how to
develop them from their humble beginnings at 1st level to
the dizzying heights of power at 20th level. In addition to
the class entries, you might need to reference the following
sections, which detail additional character options and
how to advance your character in level.
• Leveling Up on page 29 tells you how to make your
character stronger when you get enough Experience
Points to reach a new level.
• Archetypes on page 174 gives you thematic options
that allow you to further customize your character’s
abilities. Though these rules are not recommended for
beginners, the archetypes in this book allow you to
gain abilities from other classes starting at 2nd level.
READING CLASS ENTRIES
Every class entry includes information about typical
members of the class, plus suggestions for roleplaying
characters of that class and playing these characters in the
game’s various modes. Each class provides your character
with an attribute boost to a key attribute; a number of
Hit Points they receive at each level; proficiency ranks for
various abilities, equipment, and skills; special abilities
CHAPTER 3:
CLASSES
Just as your character’s ancestry plays a key role in expressing their identity and worldview, their
class indicates the training they have and will improve upon as an adventurer. Choosing your
character’s class is perhaps the most important decision you will make for them. Groups of players
often create characters whose skills and abilities complement each other mechanically—for example,
ensuring your party includes a healer, a combat-oriented character, a stealthy character, and someone
with command over magic—so you may wish to discuss options with your group before deciding!
from their class features; and more. Your character’s class
entry also provides the information needed when they
gain levels, so it will be a vital reference throughout the
course of your campaign.
PLAYING THE CLASS
The first section of each class describes the interests and
tendencies typical of that class, as well as information
on how others view them. This can help inspire you as
you determine your character’s actions and define their
personality, but you aren’t obligated to play your character
as this section describes.
KEY ATTRIBUTE
This is the attribute modifier that a member of your class
cares about the most. Many of your most useful and
powerful abilities are tied to this attribute in some way.
For instance, this is the attribute modifier you’ll use to
determine the Difficulty Class (DC) associated with your
character’s class features and feats. This is called your
class DC. If your character is a member of a spellcasting
class, this key attribute is used to calculate spell DCs and
similar values.
Most classes are associated with one key attribute
modifier, but some allow you to choose from two options.
For instance, if you’re a witchwarper, you can choose
either Intelligence or Charisma as your key attribute.
Additionally, when you choose your character’s class,
they gain an attribute boost to their key attribute modifier,
increasing that attribute modifier by 1. For more about
attribute boosts, see page 23.
HIT POINTS
This section tells you how many Hit Points your character
gains from their class at each level. To determine your
character’s starting Hit Points, add together the Hit Points
they got when you chose their ancestry and the amount
listed in this entry, which equals your Constitution modifier
plus a fixed number. Classes that intend for characters to
99
rush into battle with weapons raised gain a higher number
of Hit Points each level, while characters who cast spells or
engage in trickery gain fewer.
Each time your character gains a level, they increase
their maximum Hit Points by the amount listed in this entry.
For more about calculating your character’s Constitution
modifier and determining their Hit Points, see page 21.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
When you choose your character’s class, they gain a set of
initial proficiencies. Proficiencies measure your character’s
ability to perform tasks, use abilities, and succeed at
checks. Proficiency ranks range from trained to legendary.
For instance, a character trained with a battle ribbon can
use it effectively to dispatch foes, while a character who
is legendary with the weapon might be able to spell out
their name in decorative cursive script with just a flick of
their wrist!
Each class entry specifies your character’s initial
proficiency rank in Perception, saving throws, attacks,
defenses, and class DC. You gain the trained proficiency
rank in several skills. The exact number depends on your
class, and some classes specify certain additional skills
that you’re trained in. If your class would make you
trained in a skill you’re already trained in (typically due to
your background), you can select another skill to become
trained in.
A proficiency rank can unlock various feats and class
features, and it also helps determine the modifier for any
check you roll or DC you calculate related to that statistic.
If your character is trained in Perception, a saving throw,
or another statistic, they gain a proficiency bonus equal to
their level + 2, while if they have expert proficiency, they
gain a proficiency bonus equal to their level + 4. For more
about proficiency ranks, see page 24.
Spellcasting classes grant a proficiency rank for spell
attacks and DCs, which are further detailed in each class’s
entry. These classes rarely use their class DC.
If something isn’t listed in your character’s class entry,
their proficiency rank in that statistic is untrained unless
they gain training from another source. If your character
is untrained in something, you add a proficiency bonus of
+0 when attempting a check or calculating a DC related to
that statistic.
ADVANCEMENT TABLE
This table summarizes the feats, skill increases, attribute
boosts, and other benefits your character gains as they
advance in level. The first column of the class table
indicates a level, and the second column lists each feature
your character receives when they reach that level. The
1st-level entry includes a reminder to select your ancestry
and background.
CLASS FEATURES
This section presents all the abilities the class grants
your character. An ability gained at a higher level lists the
required level next to the ability’s name. All classes include
the class features detailed below, and each class also gets
special class features specific to it. Many class features
require you to choose between options. Unless the specific
ability states otherwise, such decisions can’t be changed
without retraining (as explained on page 433).
Class Feats
This section specifies the levels at which your character
gains class feats—special feats that only members of that
class can access. Class feats are granted beginning at 1st or
2nd level, depending on the class. Specific class feats are
detailed at the end of each class entry.
Skill Feats
This section specifies the levels at which your character gains
feats with the skill trait, called skill feats. Skill feats can be
found in Chapter 5, beginning on page 210. At 2nd level and
every two levels thereafter, most classes gain a skill feat,
though some classes may get them at different levels, like the
envoy using adaptive talent. Your character must be trained
in the corresponding skill to take a skill feat.
General Feats
This section specifies the levels at which your character
gains general feats. Most classes grant a general feat at 3rd
level and every 4 levels thereafter. At each of these levels,
you can select any general feat (including skill feats) as long
as your character qualifies for it. More information can be
found in Chapter 5 (page 210).
Skill Increases
This section specifies the levels at which your character
can increase their proficiency rank in a skill. At 3rd level
and every 2 levels thereafter, most classes grant a skill
increase, though envoys gain them earlier and more often.
Your character can use a skill increase to either become
trained in one skill in which they’re untrained, or to become
an expert in one skill in which they’re already trained.
If your character is at least 7th level, they can use a
skill increase to become a master of a skill in which they’re
already an expert. If they’re at least 15th level, they can use
an increase to become legendary in a skill in which they’re
already a master.
Attribute Boosts
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, your character
boosts four different attribute modifiers. This is described
briefly in the class. For the full details on attribute
modifiers and applying them during character creation,
see page 23.
Ancestry Feats
This section serves as a reminder of the ancestry feats your
character gains at 5th, 9th, 13th, and 17th levels. Ancestry
feats are detailed in each ancestry entry in Chapter 2, which
begins on page 40.
100
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Envoy Page 102
The envoy is a plucky leader who supports their
allies with battlefield directives, social savviness, and
a suite of skills. Envoys call out directives to their
allies, granting powerful boons that improve if the
envoy performs an action to lead by example. Envoys
are full of sassy quips and always have useful tricks
up their sleeves. Play the envoy if you want to be a
smooth talker with a plethora of skills who helps your
allies win battles and acts as the “face” of the party.
Navasi
Navasi, the human envoy, is a former space
pirate with a heart of gold. She’s got a witty
remark for every occasion and a bullet for
anyone who would hurt one of her friends.
Mystic Page 114
The mystic is a spellcaster with a connection
to a divine, occult, or primal aspect of the universe. A
mystic casts powerful spells, learning new epiphanies
based on their chosen connection, and heals allies
using a vitality network that acts as a floating pool of
Hit Points. Play the mystic if you want to be a powerful
spellcaster who also heals your allies through your
supernatural bonds while casting powerful spells.
Chk Chk
The shirren mystic Chk Chk worships Zon-
Shelyn, the god of creating art from suffering.
He enjoys creatively expressing himself by
writing poetry and dueling enemies with his painglaive.
Operative Page 126
The operative brings precision and tactical
training to any situation. In battle, they use the Aim
action to reduce enemy cover and deal extra precision
damage. Some operatives are snipers shooting highcaliber
rifles, others are skirmishers who fight with
pistols or light melee weapons, and some are smooth
infiltrators or cunning spies who only draw their gun
when cornered. Play an operative if you like guns and
want to deal high damage to your designated targets.
Iseph
The android operative Iseph has modified their
body into a perfect weapon, and their gun is an
extension of their hard-earned power and grace.
Solarian Page 138
The solarian is a warrior who channels the
cosmic cycle. Every solarian creates weapons of pure
stellar energy that they can manifest at will. Cycling
between graviton and photon attunement, a solarian’s
abilities gain different effects based on their current
state, allowing them to execute incredible combination
attacks. Play the solarian if you want to dash into
close combat and cycle your attacks between powerful
control and damage abilities.
Dae
The pahtra solarian Dae loves showing off
by combining their flashy dance moves with
solar flares or turning their battle ribbon into
a electrotether or a whip of solar fire.
Soldier Page 150
The soldier is a weapons expert with a mountain
of Hit Points who isn’t afraid to get between their allies
and danger. They unleash suppressing attacks with
area weapons that pin foes. They designate a primary
target within their area attacks, granting them extra
shots while firing their heavy weapons. Play a soldier
if you want to control the battlefield with area-of-effect
attacks while soaking attacks from enemies.
Obozaya
Obozaya the vesk soldier doesn’t back down,
she opens fire. With big guns, bigger armor,
and her trusty doshko, she becomes a wall of
bulk and bullets in combat.
Witchwarper Page 162
A witchwarper alters reality by drawing on the
infinite possibilities of other universes and timelines.
Every witchwarper is influenced by an event, and they
can harness paradoxical powers to create powerful
magic. They cast spells and sustain a reality-altering
warp field to thwart enemies. Play a witchwarper if you
want to bend reality to your will.
Zemir
Zemir the human witchwarper jumps between
realities and timelines, trusting his uncanny
luck and years of experience to keep him
anchored while searching for the loved ones he
lost years ago to the perils of infinite worlds.
101
102
3
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS...
You issue directives to your allies, granting benefits and letting you take the lead.
Your words and deeds bolster your allies or harry your foes, and your cunning can
get you and your team out of danger.
DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS...
You’re often the face for your team, whether you use diplomacy, lies, threats, or
whatever words it takes to get your way.
WHILE EXPLORING...
You adapt to situations and excel at motivating your team to overcome obstacles.
IN DOWNTIME...
You look for new opportunities to make a name for yourself, work your way up
through the ranks of an organization, or establish an enterprise of your own.
YOU MIGHT...
• Aspire to lead a business or military organization, or captain a starship.
• Have friends—and enemies—in unexpected places.
• Look for opportunities to talk your way out of fights.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Like you, or at least respect you.
• Ask for your help navigating complex social situations.
• Assume you like being in charge.
CLASS FEATURES
You gain these abilities as an envoy. Abilities gained at higher levels list the level at
which you gain them next to the features’ names.
ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, you have the benefits of
your selected ancestry and background, as described in Chapter 2.
ENVOY
You’re a master influencer. You make your way in the universe with a charming smile, quick wit, and keen
sense of self-preservation. You’re a leader who motivates your teammates, pushes them past their limits,
and helps them through tough spots. You excel at getting others to do what you want, but you’re always
ready to face trouble head-on when things take a turn for the worse. You might be a con artist, diplomat,
performer, or military officer—or you might take on whatever role the situation demands.
HIT POINTS
8 + Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
KEY ATTRIBUTE
Charisma
At 1st level, your class gives you
an attribute boost to Charisma.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a better
proficiency rank in some other way.
PERCEPTION
Trained in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Expert in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in one of the following skills
of your choice: Deception, Diplomacy,
Intimidation
Trained in one skill based on your
leadership style
Trained in a number of additional
skills equal to 6 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in martial weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in light armor
Trained in unarmored defense
CLASS DC
Trained in envoy class DC
103
ATTRIBUTE BOOSTS
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, you
have four free boosts to different attribute modifiers.
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you get four free
boosts to different attribute modifiers. If an attribute modifier
is already +4 or higher, it takes two boosts to increase it; you
get a partial boost and must boost that attribute again at a
later level to increase it by 1.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that represent
your basic training. These proficiencies are noted at the start
of this class.
ENVOY DIRECTIVES
Envoys encourage their allies with directives. A directive is
an order that benefits allies who follow it. Envoy directives
include a way for the envoy to lead by example by spending
more actions for increased effects. Directives have the auditory
or visual trait depending on how you inspire your allies.
You begin with one envoy directive. You can learn more
directives through the envoy class, envoy class feats, and your
leadership style. You can issue one directive a round. Unless
otherwise stated, an envoy’s directive and the benefits it
grants last until the beginning of your next turn.
You gain the Get ’Em! envoy directive.
GET ’EM! [one-action] TO [two-actions]
DIRECTIVE ENVOY
You single out an enemy for you and your allies to focus your
attacks on. Select an enemy within 60 feet that you can see.
You and your allies gain a +1 status bonus to attacks against
that target until the beginning of your next turn.
Lead by Example If you used two actions, Strike the target.
You gain a status bonus to the damage roll equal to your
Charisma modifier. Regardless of whether the Strike hits, you
and your allies gain a +1 status bonus to damage on subsequent
Strikes made against the enemy until the start of your next turn.
Increase the damage by 1 at 5th, 10th, 15th, and 20th levels.
LEADERSHIP STYLE
Whether it comes naturally, or you trained for it, you’ve
developed a personal style of leading others. At 1st level,
select a leadership style. You become trained in the indicated
leadership skill, you gain the indicated leadership perk, and
know the associated leadership directive.
From the Front
You’re most comfortable leading your allies from the front lines
of battle while you fight alongside them. You might raise a
shield to help weather the storm of incoming gunfire or simply
lead with a pointed finger and a shout of encouragement as
you run into the center of the enemy formation.
Leadership Skill Athletics
Leadership Perk You’re trained in medium armor. When you
gain light armor expertise, you also gain expert proficiency
in medium armor, and when you gain light armor mastery,
you also gain master proficiency in medium armor.
Leadership Directive Into Position!
INTO POSITION! [one-action] TO [two-actions]
DIRECTIVE ENVOY TRAVERSAL
You call on allies to get out of a threat’s area or close on a threat.
Select an enemy within 60 feet. Allies within the target’s reach
can Step as a reaction. Allies within 30 feet of you and not
adjacent to the target can Stride as a reaction but must end
closer to the target.
Lead by Example If you used two actions, Strike the target to
focus their attention on you. The target takes a –1 circumstance
penalty on attacks made against other creatures until the start
of your next turn.
ENVOY ADVANCEMENT
Your Level Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, attribute boosts,
initial proficiencies, envoy directives,
leadership style, envoy feat
2 Envoy feat, skill feat, skill increase
3
Adaptive talent, general feat, skill increase,
wise to the game
4 Envoy feat, skill feat, skill increase
5
Ancestry feat, attribute boosts, improvised
mastery, perception expertise, skill increase,
weapon expertise
6 Envoy feat, skill feat, skill increase
7
Fortitude expertise, general feat, leader’s
confidence, skill increase, weapon
specialization
8 Envoy feat, skill feat, skill increase
9
Adaptive talent, ancestry feat, envoy
expertise, hidden agenda, skill increase
10
Attribute boosts, envoy feat, skill feat, skill
increase
11
General feat, perception mastery, resolve,
savvy improviser, skill increase
12 Envoy feat, skill feat, skill increase
13
Ancestry feat, light armor expertise, skill
increase, tactician, weapon mastery
14 Envoy feat, skill feat, skill increase
15
Adaptive talent, attribute boosts, general
feat, greater weapon specialization,
legendary improvisation, reflex mastery, skill
increase
16 Envoy feat, skill feat, skill increase
17
Ancestry feat, greater resolve, incredible
senses, inscrutable, skill increase
18 Envoy feat, skill feat, skill increase
19
General feat, light armor mastery, silver
tongue, skill increase
20
Attribute boosts, envoy feat, skill feat, skill
increase
104
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
From the Shadows
You prefer to direct your allies in subtle ways, without drawing
much attention from foes. You might sneak in behind your
bodyguards or support your team from a safe distance.
Leadership Skill Stealth
Leadership Perk You gain Assurance (Stealth) as a bonus feat.
Leadership Directive Coordinated Ambush!
COORDINATED AMBUSH! [one-action] TO [two-actions]
DIRECTIVE ENVOY
With perfect timing, you call on hidden allies to take down an
unsuspecting target. Designate an enemy creature within 60
feet and an ally within 60 feet. If the ally is hidden, undetected,
or unnoticed to the target at the start of their turn, they treat
the target as off-guard until the end of their turn instead of
when they become visible to the target.
Lead by Example If you used two actions, Hide or Sneak.
Until the start of your next turn, you can Strike the enemy
target as a reaction the first time the ally you targeted attacks
your designated enemy.
Guns Blazing
You lead your team by making an impression with firepower.
Your bombastic personality has a barrage of gunfire to back it
up, and you always shoot first.
Leadership Skill Acrobatics
Leadership Perk You gain Incredible Initiative as a bonus feat.
Leadership Directive Ready Arms!
READY ARMS! [one-action] TO [two-actions]
DIRECTIVE ENVOY
With quick commands, you get your allies to ready their
equipment. You and all allies within 30 feet can Interact to
draw, Switch Hands, or swap weapons as a reaction.
Lead by Example If you used two actions, you can Strike,
Area Fire, or Auto-Fire with a weapon you drew or swapped to
(including by changing active set of hands). If your Strike hits
or if a target failed its save against your Area Fire or Auto-Fire,
one ally can make a Strike against the same target as a reaction.
In the Spotlight
Whether through conversation, clever lies, dazzling
performances, or threats, you rely on charm and cunning to
influence others. You crave being in the spotlight.
Leadership Skill Performance
Leadership Perk You gain Impressive Performance as a bonus
feat.
Leadership Directive Dance Partner!
DANCE PARTNER! [one-action] TO [two-actions]
DIRECTIVE ENVOY TRAVERSAL
Every good performer needs an accompanying act. Nominate
yourself and an ally within 10 feet. Stride or Step, then your
ally can Stride or Step as a reaction as long as they end the
same distance or closer to you than they started.
Lead by Example If you used two actions, you and your
selected ally count any enemies that you both threaten as
being flanked, regardless of your relative positions, until the
start of your next turn. Your ally becomes concealed against
ranged Strikes made by creatures within 10 feet until the start
of your next turn or the ally moves, whichever comes first.
Infosphere Director
You control the flow of information, playing a critical role
during a battle or while planning your next mission. You might
give commands through a comm unit or datapad or using
telepathic communication.
Leadership Skill Computers
Leadership Perk You gain Digital Diversion as a bonus feat.
Leadership Directive Digital Assessment!
DIGITAL ASSESSMENT! [one-action] TO [two-actions]
DIRECTIVE ENVOY
A quick check of your records and local infospheres lets
you quickly disseminate information to your allies. Choose
a creature within 100 feet and Recall Knowledge about the
target. When you succeed at identifying your target with
Recall Knowledge, you note a resistance or immunity in the
creature’s defenses in addition to any other benefits.
Lead by Example If you used two actions, you Strike the
target. You and your allies gain a +1 circumstance bonus to AC
against attacks made by the target until the start of your next
turn. If the target has the tech trait, it must attempt a Fortitude
save against your class DC. On a failure, the target becomes
glitching 1. The target is then immune to Digital Assessment
for 1 hour.
Through Desperate Times
You step up to lead during difficult times. You might have
experienced a traumatic event, perhaps escaping a pirate ship
during a mutiny, or you fought in some notorious battle. Your
allies trust your instincts, knowing you’ll keep them safe.
Leadership Skill Medicine
Leadership Perk You gain Battle Medicine as a bonus feat.
Leadership Directive Keep On Keeping On!
KEEP ON KEEPING ON! [one-action] TO [two-actions]
DIRECTIVE ENVOY
You push your allies to continue fighting despite their injuries.
Select an ally within 30 feet. Until the start of your next turn,
that ally increases the next healing they receive by an amount
equal to your Charisma modifier plus half your level.
Lead by Example If you used two actions, you Battle
Medicine the target, and the target only becomes immune to
Battle Medicine for the next 10 minutes instead of 1 day.
ENVOY FEATS
At 1st level and every even-numbered level, you gain an envoy
class feat. These begin on page 108.
SKILL FEATS 2ND
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill feat.
You must be trained or better in the corresponding skill to
select a skill feat.
105
SKILL INCREASES 2ND
You gain more skill increases than members of other classes.
At 2nd level and every level thereafter, you gain a skill
increase. You can use this increase to either become trained
in one skill you’re untrained in or to become an expert in one
skill in which you’re already trained.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a master
in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and at 15th level,
you can use them to become legendary in a skill in which
you’re already a master.
ADAPTIVE TALENT 3RD
You’re quick thinking and adaptable, capable of picking up
new skills and talents with little practice or training. During
your daily preparations, select one skill feat that you meet
the prerequisites for. You gain this skill feat until you prepare
again. Since you have this feat temporarily, you can’t use it
as a prerequisite for a permanent character option. You can
use this for effects that temporarily give you access to other
abilities, such as taking Multilingual to temporarily learn a
new language.
As your envoy level increases, so does your ability to adapt
to new situations. At 9th level and 15th level, increase the
number of skill feats you gain this way by 1. You can use
feats that you temporarily gain through adaptive talent as a
prerequisite for other feats that you temporarily gain through
adaptive talent, but you still can’t use them as prerequisites
for permanent character options.
GENERAL FEATS 3RD
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a general
feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
WISE TO THE GAME 3RD
Using your words to influence others is what you do, and you
easily recognize when others attempt to use the same tactics
against you. You gain a +1 status bonus to your Perception DC
against attempts to Feint or Lie to you and attempts to divert
your attention with Create a Diversion, and a +1 status bonus
to your Will DC against emotion effects.
ANCESTRY FEATS 5TH
In addition to the initial ancestry feat you started with, you
gain an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
IMPROVISED MASTERY 5TH
Whether by luck or instinct, you display impressive talent on
the fly. You gain the Improvised Mastery action.
IMPROVISED MASTERY [free-action]
ENVOY
Frequency once per day
Trigger You’re about to attempt a skill check using a skill
that you don’t have master proficiency in, and you
haven’t rolled yet.
You trust your instincts to see you through.
You gain master proficiency with the
triggering skill for the skill check.
PERCEPTION EXPERTISE 5TH
You have a keen eye for details and always manage to
remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency rank for
Perception increases to expert.
WEAPON EXPERTISE 5TH
You’ve learned a few tricks with your weapons. Your
proficiency ranks for simple weapons, martial weapons, and
unarmed attacks increase to expert. Whenever you attack
the target of your Get ’Em!, you gain access to the critical
specialization effects of all weapons for which you have
expert proficiency.
FORTITUDE EXPERTISE 7TH
Your physique is incredibly hardy. Your proficiency rank for
Fortitude saves increases to expert.
106
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
LEADER’S CONFIDENCE 7TH
Whether you’re calm and collected or projecting confidence
through gritted teeth, you don’t let your team see you lose
your cool. You gain the Steel Yourselves! envoy directive.
STEEL YOURSELVES! [one-action] TO [two-actions]
DIRECTIVE ENVOY HEALING
Frequency once per hour
You encourage your allies to brace for impact or otherwise
prepare for incoming damage. Allies within 60 feet who
can sense you can spend 1 action on their turn to Brace For
Impact. This action has the concentrate trait. Creatures that
Brace for Impact gain temporary Hit Points equal to your
Charisma modifier + your half your level for 1 minute.
Lead by Example If you spends two actions, you Brace For
Impact. You and any ally who Braces for Impact before the
start of your next turn also gain a +1 status bonus to saving
throws against effects that deal damage for 1 minute.
WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 7TH
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage with
weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an expert.
This damage increases to 3 damage if you’re a master, and 4
damage if you’re legendary.
ENVOY EXPERTISE 9TH
You’ve come a long way, and your hands-on experience has
improved your skills. Your proficiency rank for your envoy
class DC increases to expert.
HIDDEN AGENDA 9TH
You’ve become an expert at veiling your schemes. When a
creature rolls a critical success to Sense Motive against you,
or a skill check to Gather Information or Recall Knowledge
about your secrets, they get a success instead. When you
roll a critical failure on a saving throw against an effect or
ability that would read or reveal your thoughts, emotions, or
intentions, magically or otherwise, you get a failure instead.
PERCEPTION MASTERY 11TH
Through your adventures, you’ve developed keen awareness
and attention to detail. Your proficiency rank for Perception
increases to master.
RESOLVE 11TH
You’ve strengthened your mind with an inner reservoir of
determination. Your proficiency rank for Will saves increases
to master. When you roll a success on a Will save, you get a
critical success instead.
SAVVY IMPROVISER 11TH
You can use Improvised Mastery twice per day. Additionally,
the first time per day when you roll a natural 1 on a Deception,
Diplomacy, or Intimidation check, you don’t automatically
reduce your degree of success (you get a critical failure only
if your result is 10 lower than the DC).
LIGHT ARMOR EXPERTISE 13TH
You’ve learned how to dodge while wearing light or no armor.
Your proficiency ranks for light armor and unarmored defense
increase to expert.
TACTICIAN 13TH
When you aren’t directing allies, you focus on a situation’s
shifting circumstances, readying to react. At the end of each of
your turns, you gain one additional reaction, which you can use
before the beginning of your next turn for any envoy reaction.
WEAPON MASTERY 13TH
You know your weapons like you know yourself. Your
proficiency ranks for simple and martial weapons and
unarmed attacks increase to master.
GREATER WEAPON
SPECIALIZATION 15TH
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4 with
weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an expert, 6 if
you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
LEGENDARY IMPROVISATION 15TH
Your improvisation skills have dramatically improved.
Improvised Mastery triggers on skill checks using a skill that
you don’t have legendary proficiency in, rather than master
proficiency, and it grants you legendary proficiency for the
triggering check, rather than master proficiency.
REFLEX MASTERY 15TH
You’ve learned to move quickly to avoid explosions, dragon’s
breath, and worse. Your proficiency rank for Reflex saves
increases to master. When you roll a success on a Reflex save,
you get a critical success instead.
GREATER RESOLVE 17TH
Your ambition and stubbornness grant you mental resiliency.
Your proficiency rank for Will saves increases to legendary.
When you roll a success on a Will save, you get a critical
success instead. When you roll a critical failure on a Will
save, you get a failure instead. When you fail a Will save
against a damaging effect, you take half damage.
INCREDIBLE SENSES 17TH
You notice things that are almost impossible for an ordinary
person to detect. Your proficiency rank for Perception increases
to legendary.
INSCRUTABLE 17TH
It’s nigh impossible for your enemies to unravel your schemes
or your long-term plans. When a creature rolls a critical success
or success on a Perception check to Sense Motive against you,
or on a skill check to Gather Information or Recall Knowledge
about your secrets, they get a failure instead. When you roll a
critical failure or failure on a saving throw against an effect or
ability that would read or reveal your thoughts, emotions, or
intentions, you get a success instead.
107
LIGHT ARMOR MASTERY 19TH
Your skill with light armor improves, increasing your ability
to dodge blows. Your proficiency ranks for light armor and
unarmored defense increase to master.
SILVER TONGUE 19TH
Your savvy and skill are unparalleled. No matter the situation,
you quickly course correct to set the tone you need to succeed.
You gain the following action.
SILVER TONGUE [free-action]
ENVOY FORTUNE
Frequency once per day per skill
Trigger You roll a skill check for any of the following skills
you’re legendary in: Deception, Diplomacy, Intimidation, or
your leadership skill.
You can reroll the triggering skill check and use the better result.
ENVOY FEATS
At every level that you gain an envoy feat, you can select
one of the following feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites
before selecting the feat.
1ST LEVEL
GO TO GROUND! [one-action] TO [two-actions] FEAT 1
DIRECTIVE ENVOY
You succinctly direct your allies to find cover by any means
necessary. You and all allies within 60 feet count any form of
lesser cover as standard cover until the start of your next turn.
Lead by Example If you used two actions, Take Cover. Any
allies within 60 feet can Take Cover as a reaction.
PARDON ME FEAT 1
ENVOY MENTAL
Prerequisites trained in Deception
You distract your foes with a clever comment as you maneuver
around them. You can use Deception instead of Acrobatics to
Tumble Through using the target’s Will DC instead of Reflex
DC. When you successfully Tumble Through using Deception,
the foe whose space you passed through is suppressed until
the end of its next turn.
QUIP [reaction] FEAT 1
ENVOY
Prerequisites trained in Intimidation
Trigger A creature within 30 feet is damaged by an ally’s Strike.
You follow up on your ally’s success by hurling a cunning, welltimed
taunt at a foe they wounded. Attempt to Demoralize the
triggering creature.
SIZE UP FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE ENVOY EXPLORATION
Frequency once per hour
You spend 1 minute observing a specific individual, 10 minutes
researching a specific individual on the infosphere, or 1 hour
networking and gathering information. This subject is your
asset. If you assess your asset via observation, you don’t
need to know their identity, but if you assess your asset via
research or networking, you must know their identity, which
requires at least two relevant pieces of information about
them. Examples of relevant information could include their
name, their place of origin, their current residence, the name
of their parent or significant other, their employer, or their
organizational affiliation. The GM determines what constitutes
relevant information for this purpose, based on the asset
you’ve selected.
You gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Deception, Diplomacy,
Intimidation, and Perception checks against or in relation to
your asset, and a +1 circumstance bonus to attempts to Recall
Knowledge about your asset.
You gain the benefits of the 2-action Get ’Em! when using
1-action Get ’Em! on an asset.
You can maintain a number of assets equal to your Charisma
modifier. If you Size Up other assets after that, your new asset
replaces a previous one.
TAKE ‘EM ALIVE! [one-action] TO [two-actions] FEAT 1
DIRECTIVE ENVOY
You urge your allies to take down your enemies without
incurring any loss of life. Until the beginning of your next
turn, you and your allies can add the nonlethal trait (page
399) to your attacks with weapons (without taking the normal
penalty), and to your spells that deal damage and don’t have
the death or void trait.
Lead by Example If you used two actions, Strike a target with
a nonlethal attack. On a success, you gain a status bonus
to damage equal to your Charisma modifier. On a critical
success, an ally within 30 feet can Strike the target as a
reaction using a nonlethal attack.
WATCH OUT [reaction] FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE ENVOY
Trigger A creature targets an ally within 60 feet with an
attack, and you can see both the attacker and your ally.
You signal a warning to your ally, granting them a +2
circumstance bonus to AC against the triggering attack.
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following terms in envoy class features.
Directive: Actions with this trait are special orders
that provide benefits for your allies if they follow
them. Your allies must be able to sense you to benefit
from your directives. This action has the auditory or
visual trait depending on how you inspire your allies.
Flourish: Actions with this trait are special
techniques that require too much exertion for you to
perform frequently. You can use only 1 action with the
flourish trait per turn.
108
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
2ND LEVEL
ACQUIRE ASSET [one-action] FEAT 2
ENVOY FLOURISH
Prerequisites Size Up
You assess a foe while in the thick of battle by observing
their reactions to your attack. Make a melee or ranged Strike
against a creature that isn’t your asset. On a hit, your target
becomes your asset as if you’d used Size Up. On a critical
hit, you can also immediately attempt a check to Recall
Knowledge about the target.
CHANGE OF PLANS [reaction] FEAT 2
ENVOY
Trigger The target of your Get ’Em! is reduced to 0 Hit Points.
Requirements You used Get ’Em! against a creature on your
last turn.
When the target you directed your allies to take down falls
unconscious or is destroyed, you quickly direct them at another
target. You use Get ’Em! against a new target following all the
normal targeting restrictions for Get ’Em! You don’t count as
leading by example against this new target.
DON’T YOU DIE ON ME [one-action] FEAT 2
EMOTION ENVOY MENTAL
You encourage your ally to hang on and keep going, despite
life-threatening wounds or other serious injuries that might
take them out. Select an adjacent dying ally. Reduce the
target’s dying value by 1. If this would reduce their dying
value to 0, they lose the dying condition, don’t increase their
wounded condition, and remain unconscious. The targeted ally
then becomes temporarily immune to Don’t You Die on Me for
1 hour.
GET IN THERE! [one-action] TO [two-actions] FEAT 2
DIRECTIVE ENVOY TRAVERSAL
You urge your allies to hustle into the fight or to get out of
the way. Until the beginning of your next turn, you and your
allies within 100 feet who can sense you gain a +5-foot status
bonus to Speed. As your envoy level increases, increase the
bonus by an additional 5 feet at 7th level, 12th level, and 17th
level.
Lead by Example If you used two actions, Step or Stride.
Each of your allies within 100 feet who can sense you can
immediately Step or Stride up to half their Speed (rounded
down to the nearest 5 feet) as a reaction.
SEARCH HIGH AND LOW! [one-action] TO [two-actions] FEAT 2
DIRECTIVE ENVOY
You alert your allies to look for enemies and hidden things in a
stressful situation, coordinating their efforts so they can do so
more efficiently. Until the beginning of your next turn, you and
your allies gain a +2 circumstance bonus to Perception checks
to Seek. As your envoy level increases, increase the bonus to
+3 at 7th level, +4 at 12th level, and +5 at 17th level.
Lead by Example If you used two actions, Seek. Each of
your allies within 100 feet who can sense you can also
immediately Seek as a reaction.
ENVOY FEATS BY NAME
Use this table to look up envoy feats by name.
Feat Level
Acquire Asset 2
Change of Plans 2
Cheer Up 8
Confounding Disquisition 8
Cut ‘Em Deep 10
Dirty Retort 6
Distant Feint 6
Diverse Schemes 4
Don’t You Die on Me 2
Down to the Wire 14
Effortless Influencer 16
Endlessly Adaptive 20
Extend Directive 16
Fast Synergy 18
Get in There! 2
Get Them! 16
Go to Ground! 1
Got ‘Em! 10
Hang in There 6
Hurry 6
Improvised Legend 18
Feat Level
Influence 4
Look Alive 8
Master Plan 14
Not in the Face 4
Pardon Me 1
Quip 1
Ready to Roll 14
Saw it Coming 4
Search High and Low! 2
Secondary Directive 12
Size Up 1
Sidestep 8
Situational Awareness 12
Smooth Diversions 10
Tag Team 10
Take ‘Em Alive! 1
That’ll Show ‘Em 12
True Leader 20
Unstoppable Directives 12
Watch Out 1
You Can Do It 14
109
4TH LEVEL
DIVERSE SCHEMES FEAT 4
ENVOY
Prerequisites Size Up
You’re an efficient multitasker, and you always have more
than one goal in mind or scheme on the go. You can maintain
twice your Charisma modifier of assets.
NOT IN THE FACE [reaction] FEAT 4
EMOTION ENVOY MENTAL
Prerequisites trained in Deception
Trigger A creature targets you with a melee attack.
You wave your arms to shield your face from harm and
cower, acting meek and pitiful. Attempt a Deception check
against the triggering creature’s Will DC. The triggering
creature is then immune to Not in the Face for 1 hour.
Critical Success Your attacker has second thoughts about
harming you and is thoroughly thrown off. It takes a –2
status penalty to attack and damage rolls against you
until the start of its next turn.
Success Your attacker is thrown off. It takes a –1 status
penalty to attack rolls against you until the start of its
next turn.
Failure Your attacker is temporarily thrown off. It takes a –1
circumstance penalty to the triggering attack roll.
Critical Failure Your attacker is unaffected.
INFLUENCE [reaction] FEAT 4
ENVOY
Frequency once per day
Trigger You’re about to roll a Deception, Diplomacy, or
Intimidation check, but you haven’t rolled yet.
With masterful timing and a careful choice of words, you
can manipulate the emotions and thoughts of others. You
roll the triggering Deception, Diplomacy, or Intimidation
check twice, and use the higher result.
SAW IT COMING [free-action] FEAT 4
ENVOY TRAVERSAL
Trigger You’re about to roll initiative.
You read the demeanor, body language, and instinctive tics
of your foes as easily as you read a comm unit, allowing
you to react a moment before those around you and gain an
edge in the coming battle. You gain a +1 circumstance bonus
to your initiative roll, and you can immediately do one of the
following: Interact to draw a weapon, Step, or Stride.
6TH LEVEL
DIRTY RETORT [reaction] FEAT 6
ENVOY
Trigger A creature misses you with a melee Strike.
You turn the tables on your attacker, using underhanded
tactics to temporarily hinder it, such as throwing dirt in its
eyes, shining a light in its face, pulling its coat over its head,
or otherwise being a meddlesome nuisance. The triggering
INFLUENCER
You’re a charming tech wiz, giving commands using a
datapad or telepathic communications.
Attributes
Prioritize Charisma. Dexterity, Intelligence, and
Constitution round out your abilities and defenses.
Skills
Computers, Deception, Diplomacy, Society, Tech Lore
Leadership Style
Infosphere Director
Feats
Size Up (1st), Acquire Asset (2nd), Influence (4th),
Smooth Diversions (10th)
Sample Envoy
110
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
creature becomes your choice of clumsy 1 or enfeebled 1
until the end of its next turn.
DISTANT FEINT FEAT 6
ENVOY
You’re an incredible actor, and you can use your over-thetop
bits and dramatic gestures to throw a foe off its game.
If you’re wielding a ranged weapon, you can Feint against
an opponent at a range of 100 feet, rather than just within
melee reach. If you succeed, the opponent is off-guard
against your melee and ranged attacks, rather than only
your melee attacks.
HANG IN THERE [one-action] FEAT 6
ENVOY HEALING
Prerequisites expert in Diplomacy
You encourage yourself or an ally, psyching them up for a
coming challenge and granting them temporary Hit Points.
Choose yourself or an ally within 30 feet, then attempt a
DC 20 Diplomacy check. If you have master proficiency in
Diplomacy, you can instead attempt a DC 30 Diplomacy
check to increase the temporary Hit Points gained on a
successful check by 5. If you have legendary proficiency, you
can instead attempt a DC 40 Diplomacy check to increase
the temporary Hit Points gained on a successful check by 10.
These temporary Hit Points last for 1 minute. The target is
then temporarily immune to your Hang in There for 1 day.
Critical Success The target gains temporary Hit Points equal
to double their level plus your Charisma modifier.
Success The target gains temporary Hit Points equal to their
level plus your Charisma modifier.
Failure The target is unaffected, and you can’t use Hang in
There again for 1 minute.
Critical Failure The target is unaffected, and you can’t use
Hang in There again for 1 hour.
HURRY [one-action] FEAT 6
ENVOY MENTAL TRAVERSAL
You urge an ally to pick up the pace and contribute more
to the events happening around them. One ally within 30
feet who can sense you becomes quickened for 1 round.
They can use the extra action to Interact, Step, or Stride.
The target is then temporarily immune to Hurry for the next
10 minutes.
8TH LEVEL
CHEER UP [one-action] FEAT 8
ENVOY HEALING
Prerequisites trained in Medicine
You encourage an adjacent ally to overcome their minor
ailments by patting them on the back, providing them useful
advice, or offering some form of comfort or inspiration. The
target reduces the value of one of the following conditions
of their choice by 2: clumsy, enfeebled, frightened, sickened,
stupefied. The target then becomes temporarily immune to
Cheer Up for 1 day.
CONFOUNDING DISQUISITION [two-actions] FEAT 8
ENVOY MENTAL
Prerequisites trained in Deception or Diplomacy
You attempt to enthrall a foe with a convoluted and
utterly pointless monologue that leaves your audience
dumbfounded. Attempt a Deception or Diplomacy check
against the Will DC of a single creature within 30 feet. The
target is then temporarily immune to your Confounding
Disquisition for 1 day.
Critical Success The target is stunned 1 and is stupefied 1
for 1 round.
Success The target is stupefied 1 for 1 round.
Failure The target takes a –1 status penalty to Perception
checks and Will saves for 1 round.
Critical Failure The target is unaffected.
LOOK ALIVE FEAT 8
ENVOY TRAVERSAL
Prerequisites Watch Out
You warn your ally to move away from danger. You can use
Watch Out before an ally in range attempts a Reflex save in
addition to its original trigger. If you do, the circumstance
bonus applies to their Reflex save against the triggering
effect.
When you use Watch Out and the triggering attack fails
or critically fails, or your ally succeeds or critically succeeds
at the saving throw, your ally can also Stride up to 10 feet
as a free action.
SIDESTEP [reaction] FEAT 8
ENVOY
Trigger The attack roll for a Strike targeting you fails.
You deftly step out of the way of an attack, letting the
blow continue to the creature next to you. You redirect
the attack to a creature of your choice that’s adjacent to
you and within range or reach of the triggering attack.
The attacker rerolls the Strike’s attack roll against the new
target.
10TH LEVEL
CUT ‘EM DEEP FEAT 10
ENVOY
Prerequisites master in Intimidation
Your insults and threats almost always hit the mark. When
you roll a failure on a Demoralize action, you get a success
instead. You can still critically fail.
When you successfully Demoralize the target of your
Get ’Em!, the target doesn’t become immune to your further
attempts to Demoralize them.
GOT ‘EM [free-action] FEAT 10
ENVOY
Frequency once per round
Trigger An ally’s Strike hits the target of your Get ’Em!
You provide a quick follow-up to your ongoing directive,
encouraging your ally when they successfully hit your
111
designated target. Your ally gains a status bonus to damage
equal to your Charisma modifier.
SMOOTH DIVERSIONS FEAT 10
ENVOY
Prerequisites master in Deception
You’re practiced in the art of diverting attention quickly and
subtly. When you succeed at an attempt to Create a Diversion,
you can immediately Sneak or Step as a free action.
Additionally, creatures only become aware you were
trying to trick them if you critically fail to Create a Diversion.
Otherwise the creature assumes that your diversion was
part of your regular bravado.
TAG TEAM [reaction] FEAT 10
ENVOY
Trigger The target of your Get ’Em! is critically hit by an
ally’s attack or critically fails a Reflex save against an
ally’s attack or spell.
You seize the opening your ally has provided, quickly
attacking your foe. Make a Strike against the triggering
creature. If it’s a ranged Strike, it must be in your weapon’s
first range increment. This Strike doesn’t count toward your
multiple attack penalty, and your multiple attack penalty
doesn’t apply to this Strike.
12TH LEVEL
SECONDARY DIRECTIVE [one-action] FEAT 12
ENVOY FLOURISH
Requirements Your last action this turn was issuing a
2-action directive.
You follow-up your issued directive with an understood
order by attacking a notable foe. Make a Strike. If the Strike
hits, the target is affected by a 1-action Get ’Em.
SITUATIONAL AWARENESS [two-actions] FEAT 12
ENVOY
You Ready a directive. If the trigger you designated occurs
before the start of your next turn, you can use the 2-action
version of the directive instead of the 1-action.
THAT’LL SHOW ‘EM FEAT 12
ENVOY
Prerequisites Watch Out
When you warn an ally of an attack, you follow up with a
shot at your enemy. The first time each round you use your
Watch Out reaction, you can make a melee or ranged Strike
against the triggering creature. This Strike doesn’t count
toward your multiple attack penalty, and your multiple
attack penalty doesn’t apply to this Strike. If you hit, your
target is suppressed until the start of its next turn.
UNSTOPPABLE DIRECTIVES FEAT 12
ENVOY
Your confidence is a battery that keeps your allies going.
When you use a directive that grants temporary Hit Points,
increase the temporary Hit Points by your level. When you
use a directive that doesn’t grant temporary Hit Points, you
can grant one ally affected by that directive temporary Hit
Points equal to half your level. These temporary Hit Points
last for 1 minute.
14TH LEVEL
DOWN TO THE WIRE [reaction] FEAT 14
ENVOY
Trigger The final action on your turn is a 1-action directive.
You act quickly to show your teammates exactly how it’s
done. Resolve the directive you just issued as though it
was a 2-action version instead of the 1-action that you
used.
MASTER PLAN FEAT 14
ENVOY
During your daily preparations, you can review stratagems
with up to five allies. Later, you can quickly advise each of
these allies on your schemes using the reaction below.
New Plan [reaction] (fortune, linguistic) Trigger An ally you
reviewed stratagems with is about to attempt an attack
roll or skill check; Effect The ally rolls the triggering
check twice and takes the better of the two results. That
ally then becomes temporarily immune to your New Plan
until your next daily preparations.
READY TO ROLL [free-action] FEAT 14
ENVOY
Trigger You roll initiative.
You instinctively react to trouble by directing your allies to
act at the exact moment their intervention would matter
most. Issue a 1-action directive.
YOU CAN DO IT [one-action] FEAT 14
ENVOY FLOURISH MENTAL
Requirements Your last action was a 1-action directive.
You motivate an ally within 60 feet to lead by example. As
a free action, that ally can immediately perform the lead
by example actions of your last action, gaining any benefits
and using any abilities that would normally be used as
if you used two-actions to issue the direction. Use your
Charisma modifier instead of your ally’s when determining
any relevant benefits, such as the status bonus to damage
for Get ’Em!
16TH LEVEL
EFFORTLESS INFLUENCER FEAT 16
ENVOY
Prerequisites Influence
You’ve become such a master manipulator that spotting an
opening to ply your influence has become second nature.
The frequency of Practiced Influencer increases to three
times per day. Furthermore, when you succeed at a check
with Deception, Diplomacy, or Intimidation, allies within 60
112
3
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
feet who witnessed your success gain a +1 status bonus to
the next check they attempt with that skill within 1 minute
(or a +2 bonus if your check was a critical success).
EXTEND DIRECTIVE [free-action] FEAT 16
ENVOY
Trigger Your turn begins, and you issued a 2-action directive
on your last turn.
With exceptional flair, you can repeat your orders with a
single word or gesture. You immediately issue the 1-action
version of the directive that you issued on your previous
turn.
GET THEM! FEAT 16
ENVOY
When you use Get ’Em!, you can choose any number of
enemies within range instead of a single target (you still
only Strike one target if you spent 2 actions).
18TH LEVEL
FAST SYNERGY FEAT 18
ENVOY
People follow your lead because you help push them to
their ultimate potential. Each of your allies gain a second
reaction if they start their turn within 100 feet of you and
can perceive you. This second reaction can only be used for
directives you issue.
IMPROVISED LEGEND [free-action] FEAT 18
ENVOY
Prerequisites Improvised Mastery
You can use Improvised Mastery once per hour, rather than
twice per day.
20TH LEVEL
ENDLESSLY ADAPTIVE FEAT 20
ENVOY
Prerequisites adaptive talent
Your varied life experiences let you adapt to nearly any
situation. When you gain skill feats using adaptive talent,
you gain two additional skill feats. In addition, you can adapt
to the day’s challenges by spending 10 minutes to plan. If
you do, you can reselect the feats chosen with adaptive
talent as if you’d made your daily preparations. You can’t
trade out feats with limited-use abilities that you’ve already
used that day.
TRUE LEADER FEAT 20
ENVOY
You’ve worked with a team for so long that you’ve learned
to convey orders with a glance, a single word, or the tiniest
flick of your hand (or suitable appendage, depending on
ancestry). Once per turn, you can issue a 1-action envoy
directive as a free action. This directive doesn’t count
toward your total number of directives issued this turn.
113
114
3
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS...
You cast powerful spells that blast enemies and empower allies. You heal allies you
share a bond with by drawing on your vitality network.
DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS...
Your connection shapes your perspective on the world and the way you approach
problems. When a disagreement erupts between bonded members, you’re often the
one to help them talk through their problems.
WHILE EXPLORING...
You search for traces of magic and notice details relevant to your connection.
IN DOWNTIME...
You reflect on your connection to deepen your understanding. You spend time
with your bonded allies, perhaps working on the same side hustle, going on a hike
together, or forming a guild in your favorite vidgame.
YOU MIGHT...
• Know more about the other members of your party than anyone else.
• Have insights into the nature of your connection that others find unorthodox.
• Have strange visions about fundamental forces.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Think of you as the heart of your party.
• View your bond as a closed clique or think you’re trying to recruit them.
• Assume you view the universe through the lens of your connection.
CLASS FEATURES
You gain these abilities as a mystic. Abilities gained at higher levels list the level at
which you gain them next to the features’ names.
ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, you have the benefits of
your selected ancestry and background, as described in Chapter 2.
MYSTIC
You’re a conduit, channeling the fundamental forces that connect and bind everything in the cosmos.
You can draw upon this supernatural wellspring to form deep spiritual bonds with your allies,
empower them in combat, and restore their health should they become injured. Your powers take
unique shape based on the connection you choose, granting new and more powerful spells as you
explore your connection on a deeper level.
HIT POINTS
6 + Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
KEY ATTRIBUTE
Wisdom
At 1st level, your class gives you
an attribute boost to Wisdom.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a better
proficiency rank in some other way.
PERCEPTION
Trained in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Trained in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in one skill determined by
your connection
Trained in a number of additional
skills equal to 3 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in light armor
Trained in unarmored defense
SPELLS
Trained in spell attack modifier
Trained in spell DC
CLASS DC
Trained in mystic class DC
115
ATTRIBUTE BOOSTS
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, you
have four free boosts to different attribute modifiers.
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you get four free
boosts to different attribute modifiers. If an attribute modifier
is already +4 or higher, it takes two boosts to increase it; you
get a partial boost and must boost that attribute again at a
later level to increase it by 1.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that represent
your basic training. These proficiencies are noted at the start
of this class.
CONNECTION
All mystics have a supernatural connection with a cosmic force
that grants magical powers. The exact nature of your connection
can vary widely—you might worship a god or pantheon, embody
a metaphysical concept, become a conduit for nature’s wrath, or
something else. Even mystics who share the same connection
might interpret the source of their powers differently. At 1st level,
choose your connection. Your chosen connection determines the
type of spells you cast and the spell tradition you choose spells
from, your additional trained skill, the epiphanies you learn, and
a harmony that usually grants creatures a special benefit when
you heal them with your vitality network.
INITIAL EPIPHANY
You discover the basic truth of your connection. You learn your
chosen connection’s initial epiphany spell. Epiphany spells are
a type of focus spell. It costs 1 Focus Point to cast a focus spell,
and you start with a focus pool of 1 Focus Point. You refill your
focus pool during your daily preparations, and you can regain 1
Focus Point by spending 10 minutes using the Refocus activity
to spend time with your bonded allies or otherwise ponder the
nature of your connection.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your level
rounded up, much like cantrips. Focus spells don’t require spell
slots, and you can’t cast them using spell slots. Taking feats can
give you more focus spells and increase the size of your focus
pool, though your focus pool can never hold more than 3 Focus
Points. Focus Points are described on page 296.
MYSTIC BOND
You form a bond between yourself and others, most typically
your closest companions. Forming bonds is different for every
mystic but always involves using a 10-minute activity related
to the mystic’s connection that requires you to be adjacent to
the creature with whom you wish to bond. You can maintain a
bond with up to 10 other willing creatures, and the bond lasts
until you or the bonded creature are no longer willing to be
part of the bond. You are always considered part of your own
bond and don’t count toward the 10-creature limit.
You always know the general distance and direction toward
other bonded creatures, their Hit Point totals, and if they’re
conscious, unconscious, dying, or dead. This ability doesn’t
work across planes (including when in transit in the Drift), and
some special magical or technological effects might interfere
with your ability to detect your allies.
VITALITY NETWORK
Your soul supports a network of energy that connects and
heals those in your bond. Your vitality network has a maximum
capacity equal to 6 + 4 Hit Points per level. You gain the
Transfer Vitality action that you can use to take Hit Points out
of your network and into yourself or your allies as healing.
Life-and-death situations help strengthen your bonds with
your allies. At the start of each turn in combat, when you
regain actions, your vitality network regains 4 Hit Points; if
you’re master in spell DC, it regains 6 Hit Points instead; if
you’re legendary, it regains 8 Hit Points. When you Refocus,
your vitality network regains all its Hit Points.
TRANSFER VITALITY [one-action]
CONCENTRATE HEALING MYSTIC
You can transfer up to 10 Hit Points (minimum 1) from your
vitality network into yourself or a bonded creature you can
MYSTIC ADVANCEMENT
Your Level Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, attribute boosts,
initial proficiencies, connection, initial
epiphany, mystic bond, vitality network,
mystic spellcasting, spell repertoire
2 Mystic feat, skill feat
3
2nd-rank spells, general feat, group chat,
reflex expertise, signature spells, skill increase
4 Mystic feat, skill feat
5
3rd-rank spells, ancestry feat, attribute
boosts, fortitude expertise, skill increase
6 Mystic feat, skill feat
7
4th-rank spells, expert spellcaster, general
feat, skill increase
8 Mystic feat, skill feat
9
5th-rank spells, ancestry feat, resilient soul,
skill increase
10 Attribute boosts, mystic feat, skill feat
11
6th-rank spells, general feat, perception
expertise, skill increase, weapon expertise
12 Mystic feat, skill feat
13
7th-rank spells, ancestry feat, armor expertise,
skill increase, weapon specialization
14 Mystic feat, skill feat
15
8th-rank spells, attribute boosts, general
feat, master spellcaster, skill increase
16 Mystic feat, skill feat
17 9th-rank spells, ancestry feat, skill increase
18 Mystic feat, skill feat
19
General feat, legendary spellcaster, perfect
harmony, skill increase, transcendence
20 Attribute boosts, mystic feat, skill feat
116
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
sense within 60 feet. This works on creatures with void healing
as though this action had the void trait. The amount you can
transfer increases by 10 at 5th, 10th, 15th and 20th level.
MYSTIC SPELLCASTING
You are a spellcaster and can cast spells using the Cast a Spell
activity (see Casting Spells on page 298). As a mystic, when
you cast spells, you might intone a prayer or hum a song
inspired by your epiphanies, you might gesture or dance in
patterns that follow the flow of your connection’s network, and
you might accompany your spellcasting with wisps of energy
flowing between you and your bonded allies.
Each day, you can cast up to three 1st-rank spells. You must
know spells to cast them, and you learn them via the spell
repertoire class feature. The number of spells you can cast
each day is called your spell slots.
As you increase in level as a mystic, your number of spells
per day increases, as does the highest rank of spells you can
cast, as shown on the Mystic Spells per Day table on page 119.
Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell attack to
see how effective they are or have your enemies roll against
your spell DC (typically by attempting a saving throw). Since
your key attribute is Wisdom, your spell attack modifiers and
spell DCs use your Wisdom modifier. Details on calculating
these statistics appear on pages 394–395.
Heightening Spells
When you get spell slots of 2nd rank and higher, you can fill those
slots with stronger versions of lower-rank spells. This increases
the spell’s rank to match the spell slot. You must have a spell
in your spell repertoire at the rank you want to cast in order to
heighten it to that rank. Many spells have specific improvements
when they’re heightened to certain ranks. The signature spells
class feature lets you heighten certain spells freely.
Cantrips
Some of your spells are cantrips. A cantrip is a special type
of spell that doesn’t use spell slots. You can cast a cantrip at
will, any number of times per day. A cantrip is automatically
heightened to half your level rounded up—this is usually equal
to the highest rank of mystic spell slot you have. For example,
as a 1st-level mystic, your cantrips are 1st-rank spells, and as a
5th-level mystic, your cantrips are 3rd-rank spells.
SPELL REPERTOIRE
The collection of spells you can cast is called your spell
repertoire. At 1st level, you learn two 1st-rank spells of your
choice and four cantrips of your choice as well as an additional
spell and cantrip from your chosen connection. You choose
these from the common spells from the tradition corresponding
to your chosen connection or from other spells from that
tradition to which you have access. You can cast any spell in
your spell repertoire by using a spell slot of an appropriate
spell rank.
You add to this spell repertoire as you increase in level. Each
time you get a spell slot (see Mystic Spells per Day on page
119), you add a spell of the same rank to your spell repertoire.
When you gain access to a new rank of spells, your first new
spell is always the spell granted by your chosen connection,
but you can choose the other spells. At 2nd level, you select
another 1st-rank spell; at 3rd level, you gain a new spell from
your chosen connection and two other 2nd-rank spells, and
so on. When you add spells, you might select a higher-rank
version of a spell you already know so that you can cast a
heightened version of that spell.
Though you gain them at the same rate, your spell slots and
the spells in your spell repertoire are separate. If a feat or other
ability adds a spell to your spell repertoire, it wouldn’t give you
another spell slot, and vice versa.
Swapping Spells in Your Repertoire
As you gain new spells in your spell repertoire, you might want
to replace some of the spells you previously learned. Each time
you gain a level and learn new spells, you can swap out one of
your old spells for a different spell of the same rank. This spell
can be a cantrip, but you can’t swap out epiphany spells or
connection spells. You can also swap out spells by retraining
during downtime.
MYSTIC FEATS 2ND
At 2nd level and every even-numbered level, you gain a mystic
class feat. These begin on page 121.
SKILL FEATS 2ND
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill feat.
You must be trained or better in the corresponding skill to
select a skill feat.
GENERAL FEATS 3RD
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a general
feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
GROUP CHAT 3RD
Creatures in your bond can communicate telepathically while
within 120 feet of one another. As long as two bonded creatures
are on the same plane of existence and both are alive, they
remain aware of one another’s present state, general direction
and distance from one another, and if they’re conscious,
unconscious, dying, or dead. You gain the Network Spell action.
NETWORK SPELL [one-action]
CONCENTRATE MYSTIC SPELLSHAPE
You channel your spell to manifest from one of your allies
instead of yourself. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell
with an area, range, or target, the spell manifests from one of
your bonded allies instead of yourself. Use the ally’s space to
determine the spell’s source, range, and area of effect, but line
of sight and line of effect must be met from both you and your
ally when the spell is cast. While this might fool someone who
only sees your ally, unless you’re hidden or the spell has the
subtle trait, any creature able to see both you and your ally can
easily determine you’re the source of the spell. If the spell has
the subtle trait, you and your ally can Cast the Spell in a way
that makes the ally appear to have cast it without that trait.
117
REFLEX EXPERTISE 3RD
Your connection blesses you with insight that helps you
dodge danger. Your proficiency rank for Reflex saves
increases to expert.
SIGNATURE SPELLS 3RD
You’ve learned to cast some of your spells more flexibly,
granting you extra control over your spellcasting. For each
spell rank you have access to, choose one spell of that rank
to be a signature spell. You don’t need to learn heightened
versions of signature spells separately; instead, you can
heighten these spells freely. If you’ve learned a signature
spell at a higher level than its minimum, you can also cast all
its lower-rank versions without learning those separately. If
you swap out a signature spell, you can choose a replacement
signature spell of the same spell rank at which you learned
the previous spell. You can also retrain specifically to
change a signature spell to a different spell of that rank
without swapping any spells; this takes as much
time as retraining a spell normally does.
SKILL INCREASES 3RD
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
increase. You can use an increase to either become trained in
one skill you’re untrained in or to increase your proficiency
in one skill in which you’re already trained to expert.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and at
15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a skill
in which you’re already a master.
ANCESTRY FEATS 5TH
In addition to the initial ancestry feat you started with,
you gain an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels
thereafter. The list of ancestry feats available to you can be
found in your ancestry’s entry.
FORTITUDE EXPERTISE 5TH
Your physique has grown hardier from your adventures.
Your proficiency rank for Fortitude saves increases
to expert.
EXPERT SPELLCASTER 7TH
You’ve formed a more powerful bond with your connection.
Your proficiency ranks for spell attack modifiers and spell
DCs increase to expert.
RESILIENT SOUL 9TH
The links to your connection and your bonded companions
bolster your soul against doubt. Your proficiency rank for
Will saves increases to master. When you roll a success on
a Will save, you get a critical success instead.
PERCEPTION EXPERTISE 11TH
You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to expert.
WEAPON EXPERTISE 11TH
You win battles with basic weapons. Your proficiency rank
for simple weapons and unarmed attacks increases to expert.
ARMOR EXPERTISE 13TH
The bonds you’ve forged protect you like supernatural
armor. Your proficiency rank in light armor and unarmored
defense increases to expert.
WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 13TH
You’ve learned to protect yourself and your allies with
your weapons. You deal 2 additional damage with
weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an
expert. This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master
and 4 if you’re legendary.
MASTER SPELLCASTER
15TH
You channel magic through your connection.
Your proficiency ranks for spell attack
modifiers and spell DCs increase to master.
118
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
LEGENDARY SPELLCASTER 19TH
Magic flows through your every pore. Your proficiency ranks
for spell attack modifiers and spell DCs increase to legendary.
PERFECT HARMONY 19TH
You discover the ultimate truth of your connection and its
role as a foundation of the cosmos. You learn your chosen
connection’s perfect harmony.
TRANSCENDENCE 19TH
You’re an embodiment of your connection and manifest your
transcendence with miraculous spells. You gain a single
10th-rank spell slot and can prepare a spell in that slot using
mystic spellcasting. Unlike with other spell slots, you can’t
use 10th-rank slots with abilities that give you more spell
slots or that let you cast spells without expending spell
slots. You don’t gain more 10th-rank spells as you level up,
but you can take the Transcended Existence feat (page 125)
to gain a second slot.
CONNECTIONS
Your connection is a mystical force that grants you magic. It
could come from a divine patron, manifestation of a primeval
cosmic force, or some other mystery. Your connection
determines your spellcasting tradition and grants you
the trained proficiency rank in the listed connection skill.
You automatically add your connection spells to your
spell repertoire, as described in the spell repertoire class
feature. You gain the initial epiphany at 1st level and can
gain the advanced and greater epiphanies by selecting the
Advanced Epiphany (page 123) and Greater Epiphany (page
124) feats. You gain your chosen connection’s harmony at
1st level, which triggers whenever you Transfer Vitality,
and your connection’s perfect harmony at 19th level.
AKASHIC
You maintain a permanent psychic link to the Akashic
Record, the supernatural repository of all knowledge in the
multiverse. This connection allows you to access knowledge
that otherwise would remain beyond the grasp of regular
mortal minds.
Tradition occult; Connection Skill Occultism
Connection Spells cantrip: scan environment; 1st: akashic
download; 2nd: instant virus; 3rd: hypercognition; 4th:
clairvoyance; 5th: wave of warning; 6th: truesight; 7th:
death sentence; 8th: akashic revival; 9th: foresight
Epiphany Spells initial: akashic fount; advanced: akashic
assistant; greater: data drain
Harmony When you Transfer Vitality, the target receives
a psychic download from the Akashic Record and can
immediately attempt to Recall Knowledge as a reaction.
This doesn’t trigger any special abilities, reactions, or free
actions that trigger when a creature uses Recall Knowledge.
Perfect Harmony You create an extradimensional memory
palace that functions as planar palace. Creating a door
to the demiplane takes 1 minute. The memory palace
keeps the same layout each time you access it, adjustable
MYSTIC SPELLS PER DAY
Spell Rank
Your Level Cantrips 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 10th
1 5 3 — — — — — — — — —
2 5 4 — — — — — — — — —
3 5 4 3 — — — — — — — —
4 5 4 4 — — — — — — — —
5 5 4 4 3 — — — — — — —
6 5 4 4 4 — — — — — — —
7 5 4 4 4 3 — — — — — —
8 5 4 4 4 4 — — — — — —
9 5 4 4 4 4 3 — — — — —
10 5 4 4 4 4 4 — — — — —
11 5 4 4 4 4 4 3 — — — —
12 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 — — — —
13 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 — — —
14 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 — — —
15 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 — —
16 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 — —
17 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 —
18 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 —
19 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 1*
20 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 1*
*The transcendence class feature gives you a 10th-rank spell slot that works a bit differently from other spell slots.
119
during daily preparations. Each phantasmal minion in your
memory palace functions as an akashic assistant (like
those created by the akashic assistant epiphany spell).
ELEMENTAL
You channel the raw power of the primordial elements that
converge to create the Universe and everything in it. You might
have a strong affinity with one or more elements, or maybe you
visited one of the elemental planes and were touched by the
journey. You gain the Shield Block general feat.
Tradition primal; Connection Skill Nature
Connection Spells cantrip: recharge weapon; 1st: shifting
surge; 2nd: resist energy; 3rd: levitate; 4th: wall of fire*;
5th: elemental form; 6th: promession; 7th: absolute zero;
8th: earthquake; 9th: falling stars
*Replace the elemental trait and damage type with the
trait and damage type of your active elemental weapon or
elemental barrier epiphany spells.
Epiphany Spells initial: elemental weapon; advanced:
elemental barrier; greater: elemental nova
Harmony When you Transfer Vitality, choose an elemental
trait: air, earth, fire, metal, water, or wood. If one or more
of your elemental epiphanies are active, you must select
the elemental trait you chose as part of casting those spells.
Until the end of their next turn, the target’s next Strike deals
damage based on the chosen trait (your choice), rather
than its typical damage type: electricity or sonic for air,
bludgeoning or piercing for earth, acid or slashing for metal,
fire for fire, bludgeoning or cold for water, or piercing or
poison for wood.
Perfect Harmony During your daily preparations, choose an
elemental trait (as listed in harmony). You gain resistance
equal to half your level to both damage types associated
with the element you selected. If you chose fire, you
additionally gain resistance to cold. Whenever you heal a
bonded ally with Transfer Vitality, the target gains these
resistances until the beginning of your next turn.
HEALING
You’re connected to the fount of vitality and void energy that
flows through all living things on every planet. You weave these
energies into spells that heal your allies and harm your enemies.
Tradition divine; Connection Skill Medicine
Connection Spells cantrip: stabilize; 1st: heal; 2nd: false
vitality; 3rd: entropy strike; 4th: genetic regeneration; 5th:
breath of life; 6th: vampiric exsanguination; 7th: execute;
8th: moment of renewal; 9th: massacre
Epiphany Spells initial: infusion; advanced: vitality nova;
greater: vital rebirth
Harmony When you Transfer Vitality, attempt to counteract
one affliction affecting the target, or attempt to counteract
one effect of your choice imposing one of the following
conditions on the target: blinded, clumsy, dazzled,
deafened, enfeebled, sickened.
Perfect Harmony Add doomed, drained, paralyzed, and
stunned to the list of conditions you can counteract with
your harmony. In addition, if you didn’t counteract the effect,
but you would’ve if its counteract rank were 2 lower, instead
suppress the effect until the beginning of your next turn. The
effect’s duration doesn’t elapse while it’s suppressed.
RHYTHM
You feel the song that moves the stars, channeling this cosmic
beat through the power of audible rhythm and universal
vibrations known by many as the Song of the Spheres. You
might simply have a melody or tune in your mind that you feel
compelled to share, beginning with the allies tied to your bond.
Tradition primal; Connection Skill Performance
Connection Spells cantrip: summon instrument; 1st:
motivating ringtone; 2nd: noise blast; 3rd: hypnotize; 4th:
battle sonata; 5th: synaptic pulse; 6th: vibrant pattern; 7th:
howl; 8th: uncontrollable dance; 9th: unfathomable song
Epiphany Spells initial: anthem; advanced: shuffle; greater: remix
Harmony When you Transfer Vitality, you can extend the
duration of any active epiphany from the rhythm connection
by 1 round.
Perfect Harmony The first time each round you Transfer
Vitality, the target who regained Hit Points can Stride as a
free action. This has the traversal trait.
SHADOW
You know every shadow is a portal to the Netherworld, and
like an artist molding clay, you sculpt that realm’s shadowy
substance into dreadful and wondrous shapes at your whim.
Tradition divine; Connection Skill Stealth
Connection Spells cantrip: figment; 1st: grim tendrils; 2nd:
invisibility; 3rd: slow; 4th: flicker; 5th: shadow blast;
6th: mislead; 7th: eclipse burst; 8th: disappearance; 9th:
phantasmagoria
Epiphany Spells initial: shadow snap; advanced: cloying
shadows; greater: shadow prison
Harmony When you Transfer Vitality, the target’s shadow
darkens and swells, reducing bright light within a 10-
foot emanation of the target to dim light. This is a form
of magical darkness and can overcome non-magical light
sources or attempt to counteract magical light as described
on page 299. The target becomes concealed while in this
dim light and can use the concealed condition to Hide. This
lasts until the end of your next turn.
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in many mystic class
features.
Spellshape: These actions tweak your spells. You
must use a spellshape action directly before Casting the
Spell you want to alter. If you use any action (including
free actions and reactions) other than Cast a Spell
directly after, you waste the benefits of the spellshape
action. Effects added by a spellshape action are part of
the spell’s effect, not of the spellshape action.
120
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Perfect Harmony You gain the Umbral Stride action. When
you Transfer Vitality, the target can use this action once
before the end of their next turn.
UMBRAL STRIDE [one-action]
DIVINE SHADOW TELEPORTATION
Frequency once per round
Requirements You’re in dim light or darkness.
You can move between shadows as though you were taking a
normal step. You teleport up to 30 feet. The destination must
be in dim light or darkness and must be within your line of
sight and line of effect.
MYSTIC FEATS
At every level that you gain a mystic feat, you can select one
of the following feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites
before selecting the feat.
1ST LEVEL
DIVINE BOND FEAT 1
MYSTIC
Prerequisites connection with divine spellcasting, you
worship a deity
As a disciple of a god, you wield some of their divine power.
You become trained in the listed divine skill associated with
the deity and add the listed cleric spells (pages 35–39) to
your spell list and spell repertoire as signature spells. If you
were already trained in the listed divine skill, you instead
become trained in another skill of your choice. You become
bound by that deity’s anathema and can receive that deity’s
divine sanctification.
REACH SPELL [one-action] FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE MYSTIC SPELLSHAPE
You can extend the range of your spells. If the next action you
use is to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell’s
range by 30 feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if
the spell normally has a range of touch, you extend its range
to 30 feet.
WIDEN SPELL [one-action] FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE MYSTIC SPELLSHAPE
You manipulate the energy of your spell, causing it to affect
a wider area. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell
that has an area of a burst, cone, or line and doesn’t have
a duration, increase the area of that spell. Add 5 feet to the
radius of a burst that normally has a radius of at least 10 feet
(a burst with a smaller radius isn’t affected). Add 5 feet to the
length of a cone or line that’s normally 15 feet long or smaller,
and add 10 feet to the length of a larger cone or line.
XENODRUID BOND FEAT 1
MYSTIC
Prerequisites connection with primal spellcasting
You join a primal order of xenodruids with ties to nature and
the biodiversity of the Universe, such as the Xenowardens.
Choose one of the following xenodruid orders on page 122.
You become trained in the listed skill associated with the
order and add the listed spells to your spell list and spell
repertoire as signature spells. If you were already trained in
MYSTIC FEATS BY NAME
Use this table to look up mystic feats by name.
Feat Level
Adaptive Defense 4
Advanced Epiphany 8
Bond Boost 2
Bond Spell 14
Cantrip Expansion 2
Cloud Storage 4
Conceal Spell 2
Convert Elemental Essence 12
Convert Illumination 12
Convert Information 12
Convert Life Force 12
Convert Tempo 12
Data Bond 10
Divine Bond 1
Effortless Concentration 16
Eldritch Bond 2
Enlightenment 20
Extended Vitality 4
Greater Epiphany 10
Infused Spell 14
Feat Level
Life Bond 10
Mental Interference 4
Mystic Luminary 6
Network Attunement 18
Network Shield 6
New Epiphany 6
Quickened Casting 10
Radiant Bond 6
Reach Spell 1
Realized Epiphany 18
Spot Healing 2
Syncretic Epiphany 16
Transcended Existence 20
Tripartite Mind 8
Vitality Web 16
Waste Not 4
Widen Spell 1
Wild Bond 2
Xenodruid Bond 1
121
the listed skill, you instead become trained in another skill of
your choice.
Order Animal; Skill Animal Lore; Spells 1st: pest form; 2nd:
animal form; 5th: carcinization
Order Plant; Skill Plant Lore; Spells 1st: summon plant or
fungus; 2nd: verdant code; 5th: plant form
Order Viral; Skill Genealogy Lore; Spells 1st: detect poison; 2nd:
instant virus; 5th: toxic cloud
2ND LEVEL
BOND BOOST [reaction] FEAT 2
MYSTIC
Trigger A bonded ally within 20 feet is about to roll a saving
throw.
You channel a surge of energy through your bond, shielding
your ally’s body and mind. Your ally gains a +1 status bonus
to the triggering saving throw. If they roll a success on the
saving throw against a vitality or void effect, they get a critical
success instead.
CANTRIP EXPANSION FEAT 2
MYSTIC
Study broadens your range of simple spells. Add two additional
cantrips from your spell list to your repertoire.
CONCEAL SPELL [one-action] FEAT 2
CONCENTRATE MYSTIC SPELLSHAPE
Through sheer mental effort, you can simplify the incantations
and gestures needed to spellcast, leaving them barely
noticeable. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell, the
spell gains the subtle trait, hiding the shining runes, sparks of
magic, and other manifestations that would usually give away
your spellcasting. The trait hides only the spell’s spellcasting
actions and manifestations, not its effects, so an observer
might still see a ray streak out from you or see you vanish
into thin air.
ELDRITCH BOND FEAT 2
MYSTIC
Prerequisites connection with occult spellcasting
You channel strange power from beyond this reality, granting
creatures in your bond the power to reform their bodies into
powerful, aberrant shapes. You gain the eldritch bond epiphany
spell (page 377).
SPOT HEALING [reaction] FEAT 2
MYSTIC
Trigger An adjacent bonded ally takes damage.
You quickly expend energy from your vitality network toward
a bonded ally. Transfer Vitality to the triggering ally.
WILD BOND FEAT 2
MYSTIC
Prerequisites connection with primal spellcasting
Understanding that all living things are part of the same
tapestry of life, you can tap into the universal code to radically
NEWBORN DISCIPLE
You worship the Newborn, a mysterious outer god of
change, healing your allies with your eldritch magic.
Attributes
Focus on Wisdom, followed by Dexterity. Add to
Constitution for more health and Strength to wield an
aucturnite chakram.
Skills
Athletics, Occultism, Medicine, Religion
Connection and Feats
Healing; Eldritch Bond (2nd), Mental Interference
(4th), Vitality Web (16th)
Spell Repertoire
1st: heal, mind skewer, mystic armor; Cantrips daze,
eldritch lance, guidance, stabilize
Sample Mystic
122
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
alter the genes of creatures in your bond. You gain the wild
bond epiphany spell (page 377).
4TH LEVEL
ADAPTIVE DEFENSE [one-action] FEAT 4
CONCENTRATE EMOTION MANIPULATE MENTAL MYSTIC SPELLSHAPE
You prepare your vitality network to catch some of your
excess magic, allowing it to flow back and bolster your bond’s
defenses. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell that
deals damage, whether or not it successfully deals damage,
you and one bonded ally gain resistance to that spell’s type
of damage equal to the spell’s rank (minimum 1) until the end
of your next turn. If the spell deals more than one type of
damage, choose one and gain resistance to that type.
CLOUD STORAGE FEAT 4
EXTRADIMENSIONAL MYSTIC
You can use your vitality network as an extradimensional
storage space, sliding items into and out of thin air as if it
were a null space chamber (pages 284). You can Interact with
an item that weighs 1 Bulk or less to stow it into your Cloud
Storage. A creature in your bond and on the same plane can
remove an item from your Cloud Storage as an Interact action,
but doing so takes 2 actions instead of 1 action. Your Cloud
Storage has a capacity of 12 Bulk. This increases to 25 Bulk
at 8th level, 50 Bulk at 12th level, and 75 Bulk at 16th level.
EXTENDED VITALITY FEAT 4
CONCENTRATE MYSTIC
You can feel and reach out to your bonded allies regardless of
range. You can Transfer Vitality to any bonded ally as long as
they’re on the same planet as you.
MENTAL INTERFERENCE [one-action] FEAT 4
CONCENTRATE MENTAL MYSTIC
You force link the target’s mind to your bond and share a
confusing glimpse of your connection. Attempt a skill check
with your connection skill against the Will DC of a foe you
can see within 30 feet. The target is them temporarily
immune for 1 hour.
Critical Success The target takes a –1 status penalty to attack
rolls and a –2 status penalty to Will saves for 1 minute.
This effect ends early if it uses a single action with the
concentrate trait to shake off the effects of the interference
or immediately after you target it with a hostile action.
Success As critical success, but the penalty to Will saves is –1.
Critical Failure You become off-guard against the next attack
the target attempts against you before the end of your
next turn.
WASTE NOT [one-action] FEAT 4
CONCENTRATE MYSTIC SPELLSHAPE
With careful focus, you guarantee vital energy lost from a target
is caught by your vitality network. If the next action you use is
to Cast a Spell that deals void damage to a living creature, your
vitality network gains Hit Points equal to twice the spell’s rank.
Special You can Waste Not without the spellshape trait. If you
do and your next action is to Strike with a weapon that deals
void damage, your vitality network gains 2 Hit Points per
weapon damage die.
6TH LEVEL
NETWORK SHIELD [reaction] FEAT 6
MYSTIC
Trigger You’re hit by an attack.
You condense the energy of your vitality network into a
shield. You gain resistance equal to twice your level against
all damage from the triggering attack or effect. Reduce your
vitality network’s total by the amount of damage you resisted.
NEW EPIPHANY FEAT 6
MYSTIC
Prerequisites expert in a connection skill other than that of
your chosen connection
Through dedication or serendipity, you’ve branched out to
explore other connections to the fundamental building blocks of
the cosmos. You learn the initial epiphany spell of a connection
that grants training in the prerequisite connection skill.
RADIANT BOND FEAT 6
MYSTIC
When you Transfer Vitality, you can select any number of
bonded allies to transfer to, though the total maximum number
of Hit Points you can transfer doesn’t increase.
8TH LEVEL
ADVANCED EPIPHANY FEAT 8
MYSTIC
You gain a deeper understanding of your connection. You gain
the advanced epiphany spell for your chosen connection.
TRIPARTITE MIND [reaction] FEAT 8
EMOTION MANIPULATE MENTAL MYSTIC
Trigger You would gain the confused, controlled, fleeing,
frightened, or stupefied condition.
You create duplicates of your consciousness capable of fending
off mental intrusion. Attempt to counteract an effect of your
choice imposing one of the triggering conditions, using half
your level rounded up as your counteract rank and your spell
attack modifier as the counteract modifier.
10TH LEVEL
DATA BOND FEAT 10
MYSTIC
Prerequisites connection with occult spellcasting
You can speak with computers. Any construct creatures you
summon are considered part of your bond and don’t count
against the maximum number of creatures in your bond. During
your daily preparations, choose one of the following spells:
instant virus, mending, summon construct, or summon robot.
123
You add the selected spell to your spell repertoire and signature
spells until your next daily preparations.
LIFE BOND FEAT 10
MYSTIC
Prerequisites connection with primal spellcasting
You can speak with animals and plants. Any living creature
you summon is considered part of your bond and doesn’t
count against the maximum number of creatures in your
bond. During your daily preparations, choose one of the
following spells: summon animal, summon elemental, summon
fey, or summon plant or fungus. You add the selected spell to
your spell repertoire and signature spells until your next daily
preparations.
GREATER EPIPHANY FEAT 10
MYSTIC
You see into the truth of the cosmos through your connection.
You gain the greater epiphany spell for your chosen connection.
QUICKENED CASTING [free-action] FEAT 10
CONCENTRATE MYSTIC SPELLSHAPE
Frequency once per day
You accelerate your spellcasting. If your next action is to cast
a mystic cantrip or a mystic spell that’s at least 2 ranks lower
than the highest-rank mystic spell slot you have, reduce the
number of actions to cast it by 1 (minimum 1 action).
12TH LEVEL
CONVERT ELEMENTAL ESSENCE [reaction] FEAT 12
MYSTIC
Prerequisites elemental connection
Trigger An enemy targets a bonded creature with a Strike or
spell with an attack roll that has an elemental trait and the
roll fails or critically fails, or you roll a critical success on a
save against a foe’s harmful elemental spell.
Your vitality network absorbs the essence of the attack. Your
vitality network regains 2 Hit Points per rank of the triggering
spell or 4 Hit Points per weapon die of the triggering Strike.
CONVERT ILLUMINATION [reaction] FEAT 12
DARKNESS MANIPULATE MYSTIC
Prerequisites shadow connection
Trigger An area within 60 feet has its light level reduced due
to magical darkness.
Your vitality network regains Hit Points equal to the spell rank
of the magical darkness if the affected area was normally dim
light, and doubled if the affected area was normally bright
light. Even if the magical darkness ends, the area’s light
level remains non-magical darkness for 1 minute; this effect
removes light in the area but isn’t magical darkness and is
automatically overcome by any form of magical light.
CONVERT INFORMATION [one-action] FEAT 12
MYSTIC
Prerequisites akashic connection
Analyzing your enemies gives you a greater understanding
of the ties that bond all things and helps synchronize your
connection to the Akashic Record. Attempt a Recall Knowledge
check against an enemy you’re observing. On a success, in
addition to the normal benefits, your vitality network regains
10 Hit Points. On a critical success, it regains 20 Hit Points.
CONVERT LIFE FORCE [one-action] FEAT 12
CONCENTRATE MYSTIC VITALITY
Prerequisites healing connection
With extreme concentration, you can sacrifice your own
Hit Points to recharge your vitality network. Your vitality
network regains Hit Points equal to the amount you sacrifice.
CONVERT TEMPO [one-action] TO [three-actions] FEAT 12
MYSTIC
Prerequisites rhythm connection
Frequency once per minute
You dance across the battlefield, magically converting your
body’s kinetic energy into magical potential. Stride a number
of times equal to the actions you used. Your vitality network
regains 10 Hit Points per Stride you took.
14TH LEVEL
BOND SPELL [reaction] FEAT 14
MYSTIC SPELLSHAPE
Trigger An ally within 30 feet Casts a Spell.
You pulse energy through your bond as your ally casts a
spell, empowering their spell in one of the following ways.
• If their spell deals damage or heals Hit Points and
doesn’t have a duration, you grant that spell a status
bonus to damage or healing equal to its rank.
• If their spell doesn’t have a spellshape effect applied to
it, apply the effects of any one spellshape feat you know
to the spell. The spellshape feat must be one that can be
applied to the triggering spell, and you must be able to
use it (for instance, if the spellshape feat is usable only
a limited number of times per day).
INFUSED SPELL [one-action] FEAT 14
MYSTIC SPELLSHAPE
You infuse your magic with vital energy that empowers the target
of your spell. Pick a spell and reduce your vitality network’s total
by a number equal to twice the spell’s rank. If your next action
is to cast that spell, one bonded ally you target with that spell
becomes quickened until the end of your next turn and can use
the extra action for only Strike and Stride actions.
16TH LEVEL
EFFORTLESS CONCENTRATION [free-action] FEAT 16
MYSTIC
Trigger Your turn begins.
You maintain your active spells with hardly a thought. You
immediately gain the effects of a Sustain action for one of
your active mystic spells.
Sample Mystic
124
3
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
SYNCRETIC EPIPHANY FEAT 16
MYSTIC
Prerequisites master in a connection skill for a connection that
you’ve learned the initial epiphany for and that isn’t your
chosen connection
Plumbing the depths of your own connection, you
understand how your piece of reality interconnects
with another. You learn the advanced epiphany spell of
the connection that grants training in the prerequisite
connection skill.
VITALITY WEB FEAT 16
MYSTIC
You can manifest your bond as a web of vital energy between
your allies. You learn the vitality web epiphany spell
(page 377).
18TH LEVEL
NETWORK ATTUNEMENT [one-action] FEAT 18
CONCENTRATE MYSTIC
Target any number of your bonded allies within 120 feet
Feeling the surge of your strong communal bond, you
temporarily attune your vitality network to the spiritual
wavelength of your allies. Each ally can immediately
choose to transfer up to 20 Hit Points from your vitality
network into themselves or up to 20 Hit Points from
themselves into the vitality network.
REALIZED EPIPHANY [one-action] FEAT 18
MYSTIC SPELLSHAPE
Prerequisites legendary in your connection skill
Frequency once per minute
You’ve come to learn that your vitality network isn’t
just a manifestation of your magic, it’s a metaphysical
representation of your connection. If your next action is to
cast an epiphany spell, you can expend 20 Hit Points from
your vitality network to cast it, rather than spending a
Focus Point.
20TH LEVEL
ENLIGHTENMENT FEAT 20
MYSTIC
Prerequisites legendary in your connection skill
You understand the true nature of your connection and how
it stretches across the vast pillars of reality. Your vitality
network has a maximum capacity of 200 Hit Points and
regains 20 Hit Points at the start of each turn instead of 8.
You can bond with any number of willing creatures.
TRANSCENDED EXISTENCE FEAT 20
MYSTIC
Prerequisites transcendence
Your understanding of your connection transcends the limits
of other mortals, granting you access to the most powerful
spells. You gain an additional 10th-rank spell slot.
125
126
3
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS...
You attack and maneuver with tactical precision, whether you’re lining up the
perfect headshot from a distance, dueling hand-to-hand, or trading shots at close
range. At higher levels, you master your weapons of choice and rain calculated
destruction on foes.
DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS...
You might fall back on your training, speaking up to give strategic advice to your
allies while remaining alert for strangers’ hidden agendas or take the lead about a
subject you know.
WHILE EXPLORING...
You take a tactical position like point or rear guard and scan your surroundings,
keeping your weapon ready for action.
IN DOWNTIME...
You train with your weapons, acquire and upgrade equipment, and practice tactical
drills for future engagements.
YOU MIGHT...
• Have trained with a military organization or mercenary group that you remain
allied with or have defected from.
• Work as a gun for hire to the highest bidder, taking any job for enough credits.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Rely on you for strategic advice and firepower in a fight but feel put off by your
talent for methodical violence.
• Want to hire you as a bodyguard or mercenary.
CLASS FEATURES
You gain these abilities as an operative. Abilities gained at higher levels list the level
at which you gain them next to the features’ names.
ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, you have the benefits of
your selected ancestry and background, as described in Chapter 2.
OPERATIVE
You’re a focused, quick-witted professional who thrives in high-stakes combat. Your deadly aim and
tactical training give you an edge over the competition—for you, even the most powerful enemy is just
another mark to take out. You have impressive prowess in your chosen field of specialization.
HIT POINTS
8 + Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
KEY ATTRIBUTE
Dexterity
At 1st level, your class gives you
an attribute boost to Dexterity
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a better
proficiency rank in some other way.
PERCEPTION
Expert in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Expert in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in one skill determined by
your specialization
Trained in a number of additional
skills equal to 3 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Expert in simple guns
Expert in martial guns
Trained in advanced guns
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in martial weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in light armor
Trained in unarmored defense
CLASS DC
Trained in operative class DC
127
ATTRIBUTE BOOSTS
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, you
have four free boosts to different attribute modifiers.
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you get four
free boosts to different attribute modifiers. If an attribute
modifier is already +4 or higher, it takes two boosts to
increase it; you get a partial boost and must boost that
attribute again at a later level to increase it by 1.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that
represent your basic training. These proficiencies are noted
at the start of this class.
SHARPSHOOTER
You can spot a target’s weak points, letting you deal
additional precision damage with most types of ranged
weapons. You gain the Aim action.
AIM [one-action]
CONCENTRATE OPERATIVE
Requirements You’re wielding a ranged weapon that doesn’t
have the area trait.
You take careful aim at a single creature that you’re aware
of, designating it as your mark. Until the end of your turn,
your ranged Strikes against your mark using the required
ranged weapon deal an additional 1d4 precision damage and
reduce the circumstance bonus to AC your mark gains from
cover by 1. These benefits only apply if your mark is within
your weapon’s first range increment. You can only have one
mark at a time.
As your operative level increases, so does your ability
to Aim. Increase the number of dice for the precision
damage by one at 5th, 11th, and 17th levels. At 11th level,
you reduce the circumstance bonus to AC your mark gains
from cover by 2 rather than 1. At 17th level, you reduce the
circumstance bonus to AC your mark gains from cover by
4 rather than 2.
OPERATIVE’S SPECIALIZATION
As an operative, you have a particular set of skills based
on your tactical style. These different specializations
help define your character and the approach you take to
most situations. Choose an operative’s specialization. This
specialization grants you training in one skill, a skill feat for
that skill, and an exploit. At 9th level, you gain the enhanced
exploit granted by your specialization. The specializations
presented in this book are as follows.
Ghost
You specialize in slipping into a location, completing an
objective, and extricating yourself without being discovered.
You might use stealth tactics, cover identities, disguises, or
spy tech. Whether you’re an assassin getting close to your
target, a spy gathering sensitive intelligence, a grifter out
to dupe your mark, or a thief casing the joint for your next
job, you’re good at blending in and avoiding notice. You’re
trained in Deception. You gain a skill feat for Deception.
Exploit: You’re adept at taking your foe by surprise. You
can Aim at targets you’re undetected by as a free action.
Enhanced Exploit: You avoid detection even after
engaging your enemy. You gain the Ghost Tap action.
GHOST TAP [free-action]
OPERATIVE
Requirements Your last action this round was a successful
Strike against a target you were hidden from or
undetected by.
You throw an object, activate a hidden flare, or take some
other action while your target is still disoriented from your
attack. Attempt a Deception check against the Will DC of
OPERATIVE ADVANCEMENT
Your Level Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, attribute boosts,
initial proficiencies, sharpshooter, Aim 1d4,
operative’s specialization, operative feat
2 Operative feat, skill feat
3
Focused, general feat, skill increase,
specialized skill set
4 Operative feat, skill feat
5
Aim 2d4, ancestry feat, attribute boosts,
master gunner, skill increase, urban operator
6 Operative feat, skill feat
7
General feat, operative’s edge, reflex mastery,
skill increase, specialized skill set, weapon
specialization
8 Operative feat, skill feat
9
Ancestry feat, enhanced exploit, operative
resilience, skill increase
10 Attribute boosts, operative feat, skill feat
11
Aim 3d4, general feat, on the move +5 feet,
operative expertise, skill increase
12 Operative feat, skill feat
13
Ancestry feat, legendary gunner, light armor
expertise, skill increase
14 Operative feat, skill feat
15
Attribute boosts, critical aim, general feat,
greater weapon specialization, skill increase,
specialized skill set
16
On the move +10 feet, operative feat, skill
feat
17
Aim 4d4, ancestry feat, resolve, skill increase,
tactical barrage
18 Operative feat, skill feat
19
Galaxy renowned, general feat, incredible
senses, light armor mastery, skill increase
20 Attribute boosts, operative feat, skill feat
128
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
the target of your last Strike; on a success, you’re hidden
from the target or undetected on a critical success.
Infiltrator
You specialize in bypassing security systems, hazards, traps,
and other defenses. From hacking a computer system or
cutting power to a building, to bypassing a biometric lock and
cracking a secure vault, you’re skilled at accessing locations
without alerting security or tripping safeguards. You’re
trained in Computers. You gain a skill feat for Computers.
Exploit: Your tinkering causes technological items and
creatures to experience glitches and malfunctions. You gain
the Sabotage action.
SABOTAGE [one-action]
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE OPERATIVE
You disrupt enemy tech to cover your tracks or gain a
tactical advantage. Select a single tech creature or tech item
within 15 feet that you can detect. If your target is a tech
creature, attempt a Computers check against the creature’s
Fortitude DC. If your target is a tech item, attempt a
Computers check against the item’s DC or the Reflex DC of
the creature possessing the item if the item is being carried,
held, or worn.
If you’re an expert in Computers, you can Sabotage a tech
creature or tech item within 30 feet. If you’re a master, this
range increases to 45 feet. If you’re legendary, this range
increases to 60 feet.
Critical Success The target becomes glitching 1 for 1 minute.
Success The target becomes glitching 1 for 2 rounds.
Failure Your attempt fails and requires more persistent
analysis. The target is immune to your Sabotage until the
end of your next turn.
Critical Failure Your attempt backfires. The target is immune
to your Sabotage for 10 minutes.
Enhanced Exploit: You can Sabotage as a free action
whenever you critically hit a tech creature with a melee
or ranged attack, targeting the triggering creature. You
can Sabotage as a reaction whenever a tech creature or a
creature using a tech weapon critically fails a melee attack
roll against you, targeting the triggering creature or weapon.
Skirmisher
You specialize in close-quarters missions that require you to
operate in crowded or tight spaces, such as inside buildings
or vehicles, down narrow alleys, or in busy downtown streets.
Whether you’re a mugger, bodyguard, assassin, or urban
mercenary, you favor pistols and can use them efficiently in
tight spaces. You’re trained in Acrobatics. You gain a skill feat
for Acrobatics.
Exploit: You’re trained to fight in close combat using pistols.
Your ranged Strikes with one-handed ranged weapons don’t
trigger reactions that are triggered by a ranged attack.
Enhanced Exploit: Your point-blank shots are particularly
deadly. When you make a successful Strike against an
adjacent enemy with a one-handed ranged weapon, you
calculate the damage as if the lowest-rolled weapon damage
die for the attack had the maximum result instead. At 17th
level, the two lowest-rolled damage dice increase to the
maximum result.
Sniper
You specialize in targeting foes from far away and attacking
while unseen. Whether you’re peeking around a corner,
perching on a distant rooftop, or aiming from the back line
of a squad formation, you favor sniper rifles and prefer to
line up the perfect shot rather than rush into combat. You’re
trained in Stealth. You gain a skill feat for Stealth.
Exploit: You ignore the unwieldy and volley trait of guns
you wield belonging to the sniper group. You gain one of the
following operative feats as a bonus feat: Keep Them in Your
Sights or Scope Sight.
Enhanced Exploit: If you fail your first ranged Strike
against your mark using a weapon in the sniper weapon
group, you Reload your sniper weapon as a free action. The
Strike doesn’t count toward your multiple attack penalty.
Striker
You specialize in hand-to-hand combat and prefer to fight
with your fists or lightweight melee weapons, rather than
guns. Whether you’re a daredevil who lives for the thrill, a
martial artist who likes to show off, or an assassin who kills
with a personal touch, you take the fight to your foes and
use your body as a weapon. You’re trained in Athletics. You
gain a skill feat for Athletics.
Exploit: You have expert proficiency with one-handed
melee weapons and unarmed attacks with the agile or
finesse traits instead of with martial guns. Whenever you
increase your proficiency with martial guns, you instead
increase your proficiency with one-handed agile and finesse
melee weapons, agile and finesse unarmed attacks, and
simple guns.
In addition, when you Aim, you can Aim with and apply
the benefits to a one-handed melee weapon or unarmed
attack with the agile or finesse trait rather than with a
ranged weapon. Treat any one-handed melee weapon or
unarmed attack with the agile or finesse trait as a gun for
purposes of meeting the requirements of operative feats.
Instead of making a ranged Strike with an operative feat,
you can make a Strike with an one-handed melee weapon or
unarmed attack with the agile or finesse trait.
You gain the Reactive Step reaction.
REACTIVE STEP [reaction]
MOVE OPERATIVE
Trigger A creature within your reach leaves a square during
a move action it’s using.
You’re able to move deftly around your foes, getting out of
tricky situations or managing to put yourself into a place
where you hold the advantage. You Step up to twice directly
toward the triggering creature.
Enhanced Exploit: You find yourself able to overwhelm
foes that you study. You gain the Overwhelming Strike
free action.
129
OVERWHELMING STRIKE [free-action]
OPERATIVE
Trigger Your Strike hits a creature you’ve designated as
your mark and deals damage.
The target becomes your choice of enfeebled 1, off-guard,
or suppressed until the end of your next turn. That creature
becomes immune to Overwhelming Strike until the end of
your next turn.
OPERATIVE FEATS
At 1st level and every even-numbered level, you gain an
operative class feat. These begin on page 131.
SKILL FEATS 2ND
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
feat. You must be trained or better in the corresponding skill
to select a skill feat.
FOCUSED 3RD
You’re highly focused on your target and able to discern
their moves. When you roll a success on a Reflex save
against your mark, you get a critical success instead.
GENERAL FEATS 3RD
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a
general feat.
SKILL INCREASES 3RD
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
increase. You can use this increase to either become trained
in one skill you’re untrained in or to become an expert in one
skill in which you’re already trained.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to become a
master in a skill in which you’re already an expert, and at
15th level, you can use them to become legendary in a skill
in which you’re already a master.
SPECIALIZED SKILL SET 3RD
At 3rd level, 7th level, and 15th level, you gain a skill feat.
This feat must be for the trained skill from your operative’s
specialization.
ANCESTRY FEATS 5TH
In addition to the initial ancestry feat you started with, you
gain an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
MASTER GUNNER 5TH
You are a highly skilled sharpshooter and never go anywhere
without your gun. Your proficiency rank increases to master
with simple and martial guns, and increases to expert with
advanced guns. You gain access to the critical specialization
effects for all guns for which you have expert proficiency.
URBAN OPERATOR 5TH
You are accustomed to urban environments and can move
swiftly through a crowded cityscape. You ignore difficult
terrain in urban environments, and greater difficult terrain
from urban environments is only difficult terrain for you.
OPERATIVE’S EDGE 7TH
You’ve developed keen awareness and attention to detail.
Your proficiency rank for Perception increases to master.
In addition, you gain a +2 circumstance bonus to initiative
rolls, making you faster to react during combat. If you take
the Incredible Initiative feat (page 222), your circumstance
bonus to initiative rolls becomes +3 instead.
REFLEX MASTERY 7TH
You’ve learned to move quickly to avoid explosions, sentry
turrets, and worse. Your proficiency rank for Reflex saves
130
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
increases to master. When you roll a success on a Reflex
save, you get a critical success instead.
WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 7TH
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the
weapons you know best. You deal 2 additional damage with
weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an expert.
This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and 4 if you’re
legendary.
OPERATIVE RESILIENCE 9TH
You have a hardy physique. Your proficiency rank for
Fortitude saves increases to expert.
ON THE MOVE 11TH
You gain a +5-foot status bonus to your Speed. This increases
to a +10-foot status bonus to your Speed at 16th level.
OPERATIVE EXPERTISE 11TH
Your techniques are now harder to resist. Your proficiency
rank for your operative class DC increases to expert.
LIGHT ARMOR EXPERTISE 13TH
You’ve learned how to dodge while wearing light or no
armor. Your proficiency ranks for light armor and unarmored
defense increase to expert.
LEGENDARY GUNNER 13TH
You’re a local legend who’s known for your prowess with
weaponry. Your proficiency rank increases to legendary
with simple and martial guns, and to master with advanced
guns. Your proficiency rank increases to expert with simple
weapons, martial weapons, and unarmed attacks.
CRITICAL AIM 15TH
The first time in each round when you Aim and successfully
make a ranged Strike against your mark, add your weapon’s
critical specialization effect to the attack even if you didn’t
score a critical hit.
GREATER WEAPON
SPECIALIZATION 15TH
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4 with
weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an expert, 6
if you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
RESOLVE 17TH
You’ve steeled your mind with resolve. Your proficiency
rank for Will saves increases to master. When you roll a
success on a Will save, you get a critical success instead.
TACTICAL BARRAGE 17TH
You unleash a devastating barrage of attacks upon your
mark. Your multiple attack penalty for attacks against your
mark is –3 (–2 with an agile weapon) on your second attack
of the turn instead of –5, and –6 (–4 with an agile weapon) on
your third or subsequent attack of the turn, instead of –10.
GALAXY RENOWNED 19TH
Your reputation as a shooter precedes you wherever you go
in the galaxy. Your proficiency rank increases to legendary
with advanced guns. Your proficiency rank for your
operative class DC increases to master.
INCREDIBLE SENSES 19TH
Your eyes are incredibly sharp even without a scope. Your
proficiency rank for Perception increases to legendary.
LIGHT ARMOR MASTERY 19TH
Your skill with light armor improves, increasing your ability
to dodge blows. Your proficiency ranks for light armor and
unarmored defense increase to master.
OPERATIVE FEATS
At every level that you gain an operative feat, you can
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any
prerequisites before selecting the feat.
1ST LEVEL
ELUSIVE TARGET [reaction] FEAT 1
OPERATIVE
Trigger A Strike targeting you fails.
You move out of the way as you elude your attackers.
You Step.
INSTINCTIVE AIM [one-action] FEAT 1
OPERATIVE
You draw your gun and take careful aim with the same
motion. You Interact to draw a ranged weapon or Switch
Hands and then Aim with that ranged weapon.
KEEP THEM IN YOUR SIGHTS FEAT 1
OPERATIVE
You always keep a target marked and in your sights, even if
they move. When you Aim, the benefits apply if your mark
is within your weapon’s first or second range increment,
rather than only within the first.
MOBILE AIM [one-action] FEAT 1
OPERATIVE TRAVERSAL
You’re rarely still, and you’ve learned to reliably hit your
targets even while moving. You Stride and then Aim with a
gun you’re wielding.
SCOPE SIGHT FEAT 1
OPERATIVE
Viewing your marks through a scope is as instinctive as
opening your eyes. Whenever you Aim, you can Interact to
Activate a sight weapon upgrade.
TACTICAL ADVANCE [one-action] FEAT 1
FLOURISH OPERATIVE MOVE TRAVERSAL
Requirements You aren’t encumbered.
131
You dodge, roll, and weave out of danger, leaving no openings
for attack as you move across the battlefield. Stride up to
your Speed. This movement doesn’t trigger reactions.
WEAKENING SHOT [two-actions] FEAT 1
OPERATIVE
Requirements You’re wielding a gun.
You target a creature’s limbs or load-bearing appendages
to weaken them. You Aim and then make a ranged Strike
against your mark. If the Strike hits, the creature becomes
your choice of clumsy 1 or enfeebled 1 until the end of your
next turn (clumsy 2 or enfeebled 2 on a critical hit).
2ND LEVEL
DANGER AWARENESS FEAT 2
OPERATIVE
You have an intuitive sense that alerts you to danger and
allows you to discern the presence of hidden threats. You
gain a +1 circumstance bonus to Perception checks to find
traps and hidden, undetected, and unnoticed creatures; to
AC against attacks made by traps and hidden, undetected,
and unnoticed creatures; and to saves against traps. Even
if you aren’t Searching, you get a check to find traps that
normally require you to be Searching. You still need to meet
any other requirements to find the trap. If your initiative
result is tied with an opponent, you always go first.
DEFENSIVE GUNNER FEAT 2
OPERATIVE
You’ve learned to defend yourself with only a gun, shielding
your body and deflecting blows with stock and barrel. Guns
you wield gain the parry trait. If an appropriate weapon
already has the parry trait, increase the circumstance bonus
to AC it grants when used to parry from +1 to +2.
DOUBLE TAP [two-actions] FEAT 2
OPERATIVE
Requirements You’re wielding a gun.
You fire two shots at the same target in quick succession.
You Aim and then make two Strikes against your mark.
Apply the multiple attack penalty normally. If both attacks
hit, combine their damage. You add any precision damage
only once, to the attack of your choice. Apply the target’s
resistances and weaknesses only once.
KILL STEAL [reaction] FEAT 2
OPERATIVE
Trigger An ally ends their turn after hitting a creature two
or more times or critically hitting a creature.
Requirements You’re wielding a gun.
You fire a quick shot at a foe your ally is focusing their
attacks on. You Aim at the creature your triggering ally hit
and then make a ranged Strike against that creature.
PEEK [one-action] FEAT 2
OPERATIVE
You shoot and then duck out of the way to avoid retaliation
and errant gunfire. Make a ranged Strike, then Take Cover.
SWIFT REPOSITION [reaction] FEAT 2
OPERATIVE
Trigger You’re about to roll a Reflex saving throw, but you
haven’t rolled yet.
Sensing danger, you can leap and twist your body away from
the threat. You Step or Leap and gain a +2 circumstance
bonus on your Reflex save. You must still roll the Reflex save
even if this ability moves you out of range of the triggering
effect.
4TH LEVEL
BLOODY WOUNDS FEAT 4
OPERATIVE
You know how to target your mark’s vital spots, leaving
bloody wounds. When you critically hit your mark, you deal
persistent bleed damage to your mark equal to your number
of Aim damage dice.
DEVASTATING AIM FEAT 4
OPERATIVE
Your well-placed shots inflict devastating wounds on your
targets. When you Aim, increase the precision damage dice
from d4s to d6s.
HAMPERING SHOT [two-actions] FEAT 4
OPERATIVE
Requirements You’re wielding a gun.
You skillfully line up your shot to hinder your foe. You Aim
and then make a ranged Strike against your mark. If the
Strike hits, the creature becomes off-guard until the end of
your next turn.
STOP THEM IN THEIR TRACKS [one-action] FEAT 4
OPERATIVE
Prerequisites trained in Intimidation
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in many operative
class features.
Aim: An action used to focus on a target and deal
additional precision damage (page 128).
Expend: The number of charges or ammunition a
ranged weapon consumes each time the weapon is fired.
Flourish: Actions with this trait are special
techniques that require too much exertion for you to
perform frequently. You can use only one action with
the flourish trait per round.
Gun: Any ranged weapon with the analog or tech trait.
Mark: The target of your Aim.
132
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
Requirements You’ve Aimed at a target.
With a deadly authority, you order your target to halt
in their tracks, drop their weapons, and surrender. You
attempt to Demoralize your mark. This check doesn’t take
the –4 circumstance penalty if the target doesn’t share a
language with you. On a critical success, your mark is also
immobilized for 1 round.
SWITCH TARGET [free-action] FEAT 4
OPERATIVE
Trigger The creature you’ve currently Aimed at gains the
dying or unconscious condition.
Requirements You’re wielding a gun.
As your target falls, you immediately home in on the next.
You Aim at a different creature.
TWIN DRAW [one-action] FEAT 4
OPERATIVE
Requirements You have two free hands.
You’ve practiced smoothly drawing and taking aim with
two weapons. Draw up to two one-handed weapons
and Aim.
6TH LEVEL
DESTRUCTIVE DASH [two-actions] FEAT 6
OPERATIVE
Requirements You’re in an environment with suitable
material to tear up, such as an urban environment.
You dash across the battlefield, tearing up your surroundings
and toppling nearby objects as you go to make it harder
for your foes to maneuver or to give chase. Stride up to
your Speed. The squares you move through become
difficult terrain.
A creature within reach of one of the affected squares can
clear the area with an Interact action, removing any difficult
terrain you created in the square.
DISARMING SHOT [two-actions] FEAT 6
OPERATIVE
Requirements You’re wielding a gun.
You attempt to disarm your foe with a well-aimed shot.
You Aim and then make a ranged Strike against your mark.
If the Strike hits, attempt to Disarm the target using the
same ranged attack roll against the target’s Reflex DC,
OPERATIVE FEATS BY NAME
Use this table to look up operative feats by name.
Feat Level
360 No Scope 14
Bloody Wounds 4
Bullet Dance 18
Bullet Fever 14
Burst Fire 16
Cloaking Field 16
Clustered Shots 14
Combat Reflexes 20
Danger Awareness 2
Defensive Gunner 2
Destructive Dash 6
Devastating Aim 4
Disarming Shot 6
Double Tap 2
Dual Aim 12
Elusive Target 1
Explosive Deflection 16
Extreme Accuracy 16
Fish in a Barrel 14
Follow-Up Fire 14
Grazing Shot 12
Hair Trigger 6
Hampering Shot 4
Impeding Shot 10
Infinite Aim 20
Instinctive Aim 1
Keep Them In Your Sights 1
Feat Level
Kick it into Overdrive 6
Kill Shot 18
Kill Steal 2
Line ’Em Up 12
Mobile Aim 1
Muzzle Flash 10
Opening Volley 8
Opportune Retort 10
Overwhelming Shot 12
Parkour 8
Peek 2
Practiced Escape 10
Relentless Aim 18
Running Shot 12
Scope Sight 1
Skirmish Strike 6
Sprint 10
Stop Them In Their Tracks 4
Swift Reposition 2
Switch Target 4
Tactical Advance 1
Tactical Swap 6
Toppling Shot 8
Twin Draw 4
Twin Shooter 8
Unhindered Advance 6
Weakening Shot 1
133
instead of attempting an Athletics check. A Disarming Shot
counts as two attacks for your multiple attack penalty,
but the penalty doesn’t increase until after you’ve used
Disarming Shot.
HAIR TRIGGER [reaction] FEAT 6
OPERATIVE
Trigger The last creature you Aimed at since the start of your
last turn uses a manipulate action or a move action, makes
a ranged attack, or leaves a square during a move action.
Requirements You’re wielding a gun.
You attempt a ranged Strike against the triggering creature.
This Strike doesn’t count toward your multiple attack penalty,
and your multiple attack penalty doesn’t apply to this Strike.
KICK IT INTO OVERDRIVE [free-action] FEAT 6
OPERATIVE TRAVERSAL
Frequency once per hour
Trigger Your turn begins.
With a steadying breath and a moment of intense focus,
you push yourself beyond your limits, gaining incredible
speed for a short period of time. You become quickened
until the end of your turn, and you can use the extra action
only to Stride.
When you use this ability, you can instead choose to
become quickened until the end of your next turn, but at the
end of this duration, you become fatigued for 2 rounds as
your body recovers. You can still only use the extra action
from quickened to Stride with this effect.
SKIRMISH STRIKE [one-action] FEAT 6
FLOURISH OPERATIVE
You attack as you move, staying mobile as you fight and
keeping your enemies on their toes. Either Step and then
Strike, or Strike and then Step.
TACTICAL SWAP [one-action] FEAT 6
FLOURISH OPERATIVE
Frequency once per round
Requirements Your last ranged Strike this turn missed or hit
and failed to damage the target.
You swap weapons with a practiced motion. You Switch
Hands or Interact to swap your current weapon for another.
Make a Strike against the required target with your newly
drawn weapon.
UNHINDERED ADVANCE FEAT 6
OPERATIVE
Prerequisites Tactical Advance
When you use Tactical Advance, you ignore difficult terrain
and greater difficult terrain.
8TH LEVEL
OPENING VOLLEY [one-action] FEAT 8
OPERATIVE
Requirements You’re wielding a gun and a melee weapon.
SNIPER
You target foes from a distance and help your allies get
past tricky locks, traps, and other hazards.
Attributes
Make Dexterity highest, followed by Constitution and
Intelligence if you want more skills or Strength if you
plan to fight in melee.
Skills
Acrobatics, Computers, Stealth, Thievery
Specialization
Sniper
Feats
Keep Them in Your Sights (1st), Scope Sight (1st),
Devastating Aim (4th), Hair Trigger (6th), Parkour (8th)
Sample Operative
134
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
You shoot your target, then you follow up with a melee
attack to keep the pressure on your foe. Make a ranged
Strike with your held gun. If the Strike is successful, your
next melee attack this round against the same target gains a
+2 circumstance bonus to the attack roll.
PARKOUR [one-action] FEAT 8
OPERATIVE FLOURISH
You dash forward, unhindered by obstacles or walls. Stride
and Long Jump or High Jump (in any order). You must
start your movement on a horizontal surface. During this
movement, you can ignore difficult terrain and run up vertical
surfaces, like walls, at your full Speed. If you end the Stride
off the ground, you fall after taking your next action or when
your turn ends, whichever comes first (though you can Grab
an Edge, if applicable).
TOPPLING SHOT [two-actions] FEAT 8
OPERATIVE
Requirements You’re wielding a gun.
You aim your shots to unbalance your foe, pushing them back
or knocking them over. You Aim and then make a ranged Strike
against your mark. If the Strike hits, the target is knocked back
5 feet. If this forced movement would cause them to collide
with a creature or object, both the target and the creature (if
any) take bludgeoning damage equal to your Aim damage. On
a critical hit, the target is also knocked prone.
TWIN SHOOTER FEAT 8
OPERATIVE
Prerequisites Twin Draw
You’re especially dangerous while brandishing twin guns. As
long as you’re wielding two simple guns, both guns gain the
agile trait.
10TH LEVEL
IMPEDING SHOT [two-actions] FEAT 10
OPERATIVE
Requirements You’re wielding a gun.
You hinder your target with a shot. You Aim and then make a
ranged Strike against your mark. If the Strike hits, the target
is slowed 1 until the end of its next turn. If the target is flying,
it also falls 10 feet.
MUZZLE FLASH [two-actions] FEAT 10
OPERATIVE
Requirements You’re wielding a gun.
Your attack distracts your foe. You Aim and then make
a ranged Strike against your mark. If the Strike hits, the
creature becomes dazzled until the end of your next turn if
it’s within your first range increment.
OPPORTUNE RETORT [reaction] FEAT 10
OPERATIVE
Trigger A creature critically fails on a melee attack roll
against you.
You take advantage of the opening in your foe’s defenses.
Make a ranged Strike against the triggering creature.
PRACTICED ESCAPE [reaction] FEAT 10
OPERATIVE
Trigger A creature grabs, immobilizes, or restrains you.
You’ve trained in close quarters combat and practiced how to
escape a hold, or similar situations. You attempt to Escape. If
you succeed or critically succeed, you can also Stand or Step.
SPRINT [two-actions] OR [three-actions] FEAT 10
OPERATIVE TRAVERSAL
You sprint at top speed to chase down a foe or flee a dangerous
situation. Stride up to four times. You can increase the number
of actions this activity takes to 3 to Stride up to six times.
12TH LEVEL
DUAL AIM FEAT 12
OPERATIVE
Your sharpshooter skills improve. You can have two marks
at a time instead of one. When you Aim, you can select two
marks, rather than one.
GRAZING SHOT [one-action] FEAT 12
FLOURISH OPERATIVE
Requirements You have a mark.
You take your time to line up a shot that’s sure to hit. Make a
ranged Strike with your gun against your mark. It gains the
following failure effect.
Failure Your attack deals minimum damage to the target.
(Calculate this damage as if every die you would roll has
a result of 1.)
LINE ’EM UP [two-actions] FEAT 12
OPERATIVE
Requirements You’re wielding a gun.
You fire a single trick shot that passes through multiple foes.
Make a ranged Strike with your gun against a target within
your first range increment. Apply this attack against all
creatures in a straight line between you and your target. This
attack ignores any lesser cover the targets would provide one
another. Roll damage only once, and apply it to each creature
you hit. Line ’Em Up counts as two attacks for your multiple
attack penalty.
OVERWHELMING SHOT [two-actions] FEAT 12
OPERATIVE
You pierce through your foe’s resistance with a well-timed
shot. You Aim and then make a Strike against your mark.
Select one of the following damage types: acid, bludgeoning,
cold, electricity, fire, mental, piercing, poison, slashing, or
sonic damage. Your shot ignores an amount of the target’s
resistance to the selected damage type equal to your level.
If the creature has a weakness to the selected damage type,
increase that weakness by an amount equal to half your level.
A creature’s immunities are unaffected.
135
RUNNING SHOT [two-actions] FEAT 12
FLOURISH OPERATIVE TRAVERSAL
Requirements You’re wielding a gun.
You rush forward, firing a precisely aimed shot at your enemy
while you’re on the move. Aim and then Stride up to your
Speed. At any point during this movement, you can make a
ranged Strike with the gun you’re wielding.
14TH LEVEL
360 NO SCOPE [two-actions] FEAT 14
OPERATIVE
Prerequisites Parkour
Requirements You’re wielding a gun.
You fire a trick shot as part of a daredevil maneuver. You Parkour.
You can Aim and then make a ranged Strike with the gun you’re
wielding during this movement, including when you’re falling.
BULLET FEVER [reaction] FEAT 14
OPERATIVE
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You take damage that would reduce you to 0 Hit Points.
You fly into a frenzy instead of accepting defeat. Instead
of being knocked out, you’re reduced to 1 Hit Point, gain a
number of temporary Hit Points equal to your half you level
for 1 minute, increase your wounded value by 1, and enter
a frenzy that lasts for 1 minute. You can’t voluntarily end
your frenzy. While in a frenzy caused by Bullet Fever, you’re
affected as follows.
• You automatically apply precision damage to all targets
as though you were Aiming.
• You take a –1 circumstance penalty to AC.
• You take a –1 circumstance penalty to Will saves.
• You can’t take actions that don’t have the attack or move
traits except to Reload your weapons.
When Bullet Fever ends, you lose any remaining temporary
Hit Points from Bullet Fever.
CLUSTERED SHOTS [two-actions] FEAT 14
FORTUNE OPERATIVE
Requirements You’re wielding a gun with at least 3 expend
worth of ammunition.
You shoot a spray of bullets at a target. You Aim, make a
ranged Strike against your mark, and subtract three times
your weapon’s expend from its magazine. Roll the attack twice,
and use the better result. The attack ignores circumstance
penalties to the attack roll and any flat check required due to
the target being concealed or hidden.
FISH IN A BARREL [two-actions] FEAT 14
OPERATIVE
As the old saying goes: hitting easy targets is like shooting fish
in a barrel. You Aim and then make a ranged Strike against a
prone or immobilized creature not benefiting from cover. Treat
a success as a critical success. If you roll a critical success, the
creature is off-guard and suppressed until the beginning of
your next turn.
FOLLOW-UP FIRE [free-action] FEAT 14
FLOURISH OPERATIVE
Frequency once per round
Requirements You’re wielding two guns, and your last action
was a ranged Strike that missed.
When at first you don’t succeed, shoot again. Make a second
ranged Strike using the weapon you’re wielding that you didn’t
fire with. This Strike doesn’t count the multiple attack penalty
from the prior attack but does count toward future multiple
attack penalties.
16TH LEVEL
BURST FIRE FEAT 16
OPERATIVE
Prerequisites Double Tap
You squeeze the trigger and release a calculated burst of fire. If
you make your second Strike from Double Tap with the same
gun, Double Tap counts as one attack when calculating your
multiple attack penalty, and you apply your precision damage
bonus from Aim to both Strikes.
CLOAKING FIELD [two-actions] FEAT 16
OPERATIVE
Frequency once per hour
You bend light and background vibrations around yourself,
either through expertise or a bit of technological ingenuity,
allowing you to avoid detection. You become invisible for 10
minutes. This makes you undetected to all creatures, though
creatures can attempt to find you, making you hidden instead.
If you use a hostile action, the effect ends after that hostile
action is completed. While your Cloaking Field is active,
security cameras, sentries, and other surveillance don’t detect
you unless they possess special senses that normally see
through invisibility.
EXPLOSIVE DEFLECTION FEAT 16
OPERATIVE
Trigger You’re in the area of a grenade explosion.
Requirements You’re aware of the attack, wielding a gun, and
not off-guard.
You attempt to detonate the grenade with a well-timed shot
from your gun. Expend an amount of ammunition from your
gun equal to its usage, as if you’d fired the gun. You gain a +4
circumstance bonus to your Reflex save against the triggering
grenade. Determine if you succeed on your save before rolling
for anyone else in the area. If you succeed on your Reflex
save, you cause the grenade to explode prematurely. Select a
space of your choice directly between you and the attacker.
The deflected grenade explodes in the selected space, and you
don’t need to save again if you’re in the new explosion area.
EXTREME ACCURACY FEAT 16
OPERATIVE
Prerequisites Keep Them in Your Sights
When you Aim, the benefits apply if your mark is within range
up to your weapon’s fourth range increment. Additionally, you
136
3
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
ignore the penalty for attacking your mark at up to four range
increments away.
18TH LEVEL
BULLET DANCE [three-actions] FEAT 18
FLOURISH OPERATIVE TRAVERSAL
Requirements You’re wielding a gun.
You dance across the battlefield while dispatching enemies
with precision and grace. Stride up to twice. You can make up
to three ranged Strikes during this movement. Each ranged
Strike you make must target a different creature within your
first range increment (calculated from the point at which you
took your attack at that target). Each attack counts toward
your multiple attack penalty but doesn’t increase your penalty
until you’ve made all your attacks.
KILL SHOT [two-actions] OR [three-actions] FEAT 18
FLOURISH OPERATIVE
Requirements You’re wielding a gun.
You take careful aim at your mark and shoot to kill. You
Aim and then make a ranged Strike against your mark. If
this attack is a success (but not a critical success), you deal
maximum damage. Calculate this damage as if every die you
would roll has a maximum result. On a critical success, roll the
result normally, but if the double damage would be less than
the result of a maximum damage on a normal success, use the
maximum damage on the success instead.
If you spent 3 actions and your attack was a critical success,
then you deal maximum damage and double the damage of
that result as normal.
RELENTLESS AIM FEAT 18
OPERATIVE
You take careful aim with your shots so that your bullets
ricochet off solid surfaces. When determining if you have line
of effect to a target you’ve aimed at, you can choose one solid
surface within your weapon’s first range increment to ricochet
your shot to hit your target; determine line of effect from
the chosen ricochet surface, rather than your location. If the
creature is undetected, the GM still rolls a flat check in secret
to see if you missed, but the flat check becomes DC 5.
20TH LEVEL
COMBAT REFLEXES FEAT 20
OPERATIVE
Your extensive training has transformed you into a living
weapon, ready to pull the trigger at a moment’s notice. At the
start of each enemy’s turn, you gain an additional reaction
during that turn that you can use only for an operative reaction.
INFINITE AIM FEAT 20
OPERATIVE
You’re a sharpshooter who doesn’t need a scope or stance to
shoot your best shot. You can Aim as a free action.
137
138
3
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS...
You rush into the thick of things and attack with your solar manifestations. You
shift between battlefield control and heavy attacks, depending on your current
solar attunement.
DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS...
Which solar aspect you prefer might influence how you act in social circles. You might
be a chatterbox who makes friends easily or a smooth manipulator who uses your
abilities to coerce people.
WHILE EXPLORING...
You likely stick near the front of the group to quickly get into the fight. You use
your powers to overcome challenges, like moving debris or climbing strange terrain.
IN DOWNTIME...
You balance your downtime between meditation and other activities. You might
create your own dedicated following to train a new generation of solarians or use
your flashy solarian powers to earn credits as a laborer or performer.
YOU MIGHT...
• Approach obstacles with caution or throw yourself headfirst at problems
depending upon which attunement you favor.
• Surprise others with cunning uses of your stellar abilities, performing acts that
others weren’t expecting or didn’t know you could do.
• Meditate or shadow spar constantly to perfect your techniques.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Expect you to bore them with constant talk of stars and cosmic phenomena.
• Enjoy watching you fight or demonstrate your powers.
• Think you’ll be the voice of reason in a group.
CLASS FEATURES
You gain these abilities as a solarian. Abilities gained at higher levels list the level at
which you gain them next to the features’ names.
SOLARIAN
You’re a conduit for the stellar forces of the cosmos—a solar knight. The powers of gravity and light
represent the extremes of these forces, and you can attune yourself between them. As an agent of this
cycle, you manifest an array of solar equipment and use your own connection to stellar forces to empower
them. Regardless of which extreme of the stellar spectrum you prefer, you can change your attunement
between them to take advantage of solar powers earned through meditation and practice.
HIT POINTS
10 + Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
KEY ATTRIBUTE
Strength
At 1st level, your class gives you
an attribute boost to Strength.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a better
proficiency rank in some other way.
PERCEPTION
Expert in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Expert in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in Athletics
Trained in a number of additional
skills equal to 4 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in martial weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in light armor
Trained in medium armor
Trained in unarmored defense
CLASS DC
Trained in solarian class DC
139
ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, you
have the benefits of your selected ancestry and background, as
described in Chapter 2.
ATTRIBUTE BOOSTS
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, you have
four free boosts to different attribute modifiers.
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you get four free
boosts to different attribute modifiers. If an attribute modifier is
already +4 or higher, it takes two boosts to increase it; you get a
partial boost and must boost that attribute again at a later level
to increase it by 1.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that represent
your basic training. These proficiencies are noted at the start of
this class.
STELLAR ATTUNEMENT
As a solarian, your existence cycles between the aspects of
stars. You begin with two aspects: photon (the power of stars to
emit heat, light, and plasma) and graviton (the power of stars to
attract and imprison objects through gravity). At any time, you’re
considered graviton-attuned, photon-attuned, or unattuned.
Many of your abilities have additional effects based on your
current attunement, and some abilities swap your current state
of attunement to another state.
You gain the Attune action.
ATTUNE [one-action]
CONCENTRATE SOLARIAN
Frequency once per round
You steady your body and mind and attune yourself to the
stellar aspect of your choice. You become attuned to photon or
graviton. You can also manifest any of your solar manifestations
if they’re currently dormant and if you have the free hands to
use them.
Special In addition to the above usage, you can also Attune as a
free action when you roll initiative.
SOLAR MANIFESTATIONS
Your deep understanding of the stellar forces of the universe
manifests in a variety of tangible ways. You can create and
maintain three different manifestations: a solar flare, solar
nimbus, and solar weapon. Your manifestations temporarily
vanish if you become unattuned.
Solar Flare
A small mote of solar power hovers nearby or appears embedded
on some part of your body, such as the palm of your hand or on
your face. This mote can unleash a directed blast of energy at
short range. Your solar flare is a martial ranged weapon in the
brawling weapon group with the attuned and solarian traits. It
doesn’t take up a hand and doesn’t need to be held to be wielded.
Your solar flare can’t be targeted by other creatures or removed
from your person, except for when you become unattuned. Your
attunement determines the damage type and range increment
of your solar flare. You add your Strength modifier to damage
rolls with your solar flare. You can improve the damage of your
solar flare with solarian crystals (page 276).
Graviton-Attuned 1d8 bludgeoning, range increment 15 feet. On
a critical success, you can attempt to Trip the target as a free
action, even if you don’t have a free hand or aren’t adjacent
to the target.
Photon-Attuned 1d6 fire, range increment 30 feet. On a critical
success, the target additionally takes 1d6 persistent fire
damage.
Solar Nimbus
A layer of stellar energy surrounds you, overlaying your body
or worn armor. It appears as a layer of glowing light or solid
darkness, depending on your current state of attunement. The
general appearance and shape of the nimbus is your choice and
could appear as a lattice of energy surrounding you or imposing
spiked energy armor layered atop your existing equipment. This
design has no impact on its function and doesn’t provide any
additional bonuses.
You gain the Nimbus Surge reaction.
SOLARIAN ADVANCEMENT
Your Level Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, attribute boosts,
initial proficiencies, stellar attunement, solar
manifestations, solarian feat
2 Skill feat, solarian feat
3 General feat, skill increase, stellar resilience
4 Skill feat, solarian feat
5
Ancestry feat, attribute boosts, skill increase,
solar weapon expertise
6 Skill feat, solarian feat
7
General feat, skill increase, stellar senses,
weapon specialization
8 Skill feat, solarian feat
9
Ancestry feat, skill increase, solarian
expertise, stellar partition
10 Attribute boosts, skill feat, solarian feat
11 Armor expertise, general feat, skill increase
12 Skill feat, solarian feat
13
Ancestry feat, skill increase, solarian weapon
mastery
14 Skill feat, solarian feat
15
Attribute boosts, general feat, gravitas,
greater weapon specialization, skill increase
16 Skill feat, solarian feat
17
Ancestry feat, armor mastery, skill increase,
solarian mastery
18 Skill feat, solarian feat
19 General feat, skill increase, stellar paragon
20 Attribute boosts, skill feat, solarian feat
140
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
NIMBUS SURGE [reaction]
ATTUNED SOLARIAN
Trigger A creature within your reach uses a manipulate action
or a move action, makes a ranged attack, or leaves a square
during a move action it’s using.
Your nimbus surges with energy, forcing an opening in your foe’s
defenses. Make a melee Strike against the triggering creature.
This Strike doesn’t count toward your multiple attack penalty,
and your multiple attack penalty doesn’t apply to this Strike.
Graviton-Attuned If the Strike is a critical success, the target
must succeed at a Fortitude save against your class DC or
become enfeebled 1 until the end of its turn.
Photon-Attuned If the Strike is a critical success, the target
must succeed at a Fortitude save against your class DC or
become clumsy 1 until the start of its turn.
Solar Weapon
Through sheer will, you call forth a tangible weapon forged
from the essence of stars. This weapon is an extension of
yourself, and you can change its form with meditation. When
manifesting your weapon, it appears in a free hand of your
choice. If it has the free-hand trait, it can manifest in any
hand. Your solar weapon is a martial melee weapon. It deals
1d8 of your choice of bludgeoning, piercing, or slashing
damage with the attuned and solarian traits.
At first level, choose up to two of the following traits for
your weapon. Alternatively, you can select the reach or twohand
1d10 trait for your weapon instead of selecting two of
the following traits.
• Disarm • Free-Hand • Grapple
• Nonlethal • Parry • Shove
• Sweep • Trip • Versatile (B/P/S only)
• Reach (counts as two traits)
• Two-Hand 1d10 (counts as two traits)
You can select one of the following weapon groups for your
weapon to be a part of.
• Axe • Brawling • Club
• Flail • Hammer • Knife
• Pick • Polearm • Spear
• Sword
Your solar weapon gains additional benefits based on your
current attunement.
Graviton-Attuned When you successfully Strike a creature
using your solar weapon, that creature’s space and all
squares adjacent to it are difficult terrain for that creature
until the end of its next turn.
Photon-Attuned When you successfully Strike a creature
with your solar weapon, you deal an additional amount
of fire damage equal to half your level (rounded up). Your
solar weapon casts bright light in a 5-foot radius (and dim
light for the next 5 feet).
RE-FORGE SOLAR WEAPON
CONCENTRATE EXPLORATION SOLARIAN
You spend 10 minutes focusing on the composition of your
solar weapon. You can change your solar weapon’s damage
type (typically choosing between bludgeoning, piercing, or
slashing), selected traits, and weapon group. Your weapon
maintains your selections until the next time you Re-Forge
Solar Weapon.
SOLARIAN FEATS
At 1st level and every even-numbered level, you gain a
solarian class feat. These begin on page 143.
SKILL FEATS 2ND
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
feat. Skill feats can be found in Chapter 5 and have the skill
trait. You must be trained or better in the corresponding skill
to select a skill feat.
GENERAL FEATS 3RD
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a general
feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
SKILL INCREASES 3RD
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
increase. You can use this increase either to increase your
proficiency rank to trained in one skill you’re untrained in, or
to increase your proficiency rank in one skill in which you’re
already trained to expert.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase your
proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you’re already
an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to increase
your proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in which you’re
already a master.
STELLAR RESILIENCE 3RD
Stellar energy flows throughout your entire being like
an unstoppable tidal wave, strengthening both body and
mind. Your proficiency rank in Fortitude saves increases to
expert. When you roll a success on a Fortitude or Will save
against a mental or incapacitation effect, you can Attune
as a free action.
ANCESTRY FEATS 5TH
In addition to the initial ancestry feat you started with,
you gain an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels
SCALED ABILITIES
Similar to spells, some solarian abilities get more
powerful as you increase in level. These abilities ends
with one or more “Level” entries. This either lists the
levels at which the ability gets an upgrade or has
an entry with a plus sign that describes a benefit
that increases on a regular basis. For instance, the
4th‑level Black Hole feat has a “Level (+2)” entry and
would get stronger at 6th, 8th, 10th, 12th, 14th, 16th,
18th, and 20th levels.
141
thereafter. The list of ancestry feats available to you can be
found in your ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
SOLAR WEAPON EXPERTISE 5TH
Your connection to stellar forces make your weapons lethal.
Your proficiency ranks for simple weapons, martial weapons,
and unarmed attacks increase to expert. Whenever you get a
critical hit with your solar flare or solar weapon, you get its
critical specialization effect.
STELLAR SENSES 7TH
Your careful training and honed senses give you increased
awareness of your surroundings. Your proficiency rank for
Perception increases to master. In addition, you gain a +2
circumstance bonus to initiative rolls, making you faster to
react during combat. This bonus increases to +3 if you have
the Incredible Initiative general feat (page 222).
WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 7TH
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the weapons
you’ve practiced with most. You deal 2 additional damage
with weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an expert.
This damage increases to 3 if you’re a master, and 4 if you’re
legendary.
SOLARIAN EXPERTISE 9TH
Your ability to manipulate stellar forces has improved. Your
proficiency rank for your solarian class DC increases to expert.
STELLAR PARTITION 9TH
Your solar nimbus protects you against mental intrusions. Your
proficiency rank for Will saves increases to master. When you
roll a success on a Will save against a mental or incapacitation
effect, you get a critical success instead.
ARMOR EXPERTISE 11TH
You’ve spent so much time in armor that you know
how to make the most of its protection. Your
proficiency ranks for light armor, medium armor,
and unarmored defense increase to expert.
SOLARIAN WEAPON
MASTERY 13TH
Your weapon becomes an extension of yourself.
Your proficiency ranks for simple weapons,
martial weapons, and unarmed attacks increases
to master.
GRAVITAS 15TH
You avoid harm by manipulating gravitational forces to
protect your body. Your proficiency rank for Reflex saves
increases to master. When you roll a success on a Reflex save,
you get a critical success instead.
GREATER WEAPON
SPECIALIZATION 15TH
Your damage from weapon specialization increases to 4 with
weapons and unarmed attacks in which you’re an expert, 6 if
you’re a master, and 8 if you’re legendary.
ARMOR MASTERY 17TH
You deftly protect yourself in almost any situation. Your
proficiency ranks for light armor, medium armor, and
unarmored defense increase to master.
SOLARIAN MASTERY 17TH
Your ability to manipulate stellar forces is unparalleled.
Your proficiency rank for your solarian class DC increases
to master.
STELLAR PARAGON 19TH
You’re a paragon among solarians, capable of shaping stellar
forces into powerful weapons that bend to your will. Your
proficiency ranks for your solar flare and solar weapon
increase to legendary.
142
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
SOLARIAN FEATS
At each level that you gain a solarian feat, you can select one of
the following feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites before
taking the feat.
1ST LEVEL
BINARIC ASSAULT [two-actions] FEAT 1
ATTUNED FLOURISH SOLARIAN
You coordinate your attacks with both your solar flare and solar
weapon. Make two Strikes at the same target, one with your
solar weapon and one with your solar flare, each using your
current multiple attack penalty. You can make these Strikes
in whichever order you desire. After the first time a Strike
hits, resolve the damage and effects, then swap your current
attunement. If both attacks fail to hit, you become unattuned.
Binaric Assault counts as two attacks when calculating your
multiple attack penalty.
HAMPERING FLARE [one-action] FEAT 1
ATTUNED CYCLE FLOURISH SOLARIAN
You focus on your flare, setting up a blast of energy to disorient
your foes. Make a ranged Strike with your solar flare. If this
attack hits, the target is off-guard until the start of your next
turn or until it Takes Cover, whichever comes first.
MEDITATIVE ANALYSIS [one-action] FEAT 1
CYCLE SOLARIAN
You briefly meditate on the nature of your foe and their role
in the wider cosmos. Attempt a check to Recall Knowledge
about a creature. On a success, your next Strike with a solar
weapon against the target this round additionally gains a +1
circumstance bonus. If your Strike hits, you can choose which
attunement benefit you gain for that strike. The subject of your
check is temporarily immune to Meditative Analysis for 1 day.
SOLAR SHIELD FEAT 1
MANIFESTATION SOLARIAN
You’ve developed a new solar manifestation—a small shield
of stellar energy that orbits you. This energy shield has the
attuned and solarian traits and doesn’t require a hand to use.
You can Raise a Shield (page 411), giving you a +1 circumstance
bonus to AC until the start of your next turn. You gain the
Shield Block general feat.
While the shield is raised, you can use the Shield Block
reaction (page 228) with your shield. The shield has Hit Points
equal to 5 plus twice your level and Hardness equal to half
your level, rounded up. Your shield can’t be broken, but if it’s
destroyed, you can’t manifest a new shield for 10 minutes. If
your shield vanishes due to you losing attunement, when you
Attune to reform it, the shield returns with however many Hit
Points it previously had. The shield regains all its lost Hit Points
during your daily preparations and whenever you rest for at
least 10 minutes, even if it’s been destroyed.
Graviton-Attuned If your shield is destroyed, it releases a
shock wave. Adjacent enemies must succeed at a Fortitude
save against your class DC or be suppressed for 1 round (2
rounds on a critical failure).
Photon-Attuned If your shield is destroyed, it releases a flash
of light. Adjacent enemies must succeed at a Fortitude save
against your class DC or be dazzled for 1 round (blinded for
1 round on a critical failure).
STELLAR RUSH [two-actions] FEAT 1
ATTUNED CYCLE MOVE SOLARIAN TRAVERSAL
You rush forward with a blast of stellar energy, getting into
the thick of combat with ease. Stride twice. You gain a +10-foot
circumstance bonus to your Speed during these moves.
Graviton-Attuned When you finish your Strides, enemies
within 15 feet of you must attempt a Fortitude save against
your class DC. On a failure, they’re pulled directly toward
you, ending in an adjacent square if possible. You select the
order these enemies are moved.
Photon-Attuned When you finish your Strides, you create a
photon field in a 15-foot burst centered on you. Until the
start of your next turn, creatures outside the photon field
are concealed to creatures inside the field.
TWIN WEAPONS FEAT 1
MANIFESTATION SOLARIAN
You have a second solar weapon. When you take this feat
or Re-Forge Solar Weapon, choose its traits separately from
your first weapon. You can select a different damage type,
traits, and weapon group for this second solar weapon. Add
the agile and twin traits to the list of weapon traits you can
apply to your solar weapons.
2ND LEVEL
DISTANT FLARE FEAT 2
SOLARIAN MANIFESTATION
Your concentration lets you fire your solar flare even further.
Increase the range increment of your solar flare by 15 feet.
ECLIPSE STRIKE [one-action] FEAT 2
ATTUNED CYCLE FLOURISH SOLARIAN
Your attacks create a brilliant eclipse that veil you from
the enemy’s view. Make a Strike with your solar weapon or
your solar flare. On a hit, you create an impressive display of
solar energy between you and your foe. Increase the level of
cover you receive from your enemy by one step. Lesser cover
becomes standard cover, or standard cover becomes greater
SOLARIAN CRYSTALS
In addition to the effects gained from your attunement,
your solar flare and solar weapon also benefit from
specialized solarian crystals (page 276). These items
increase the effectiveness of your solar flare and
weapon as you progress in a campaign.
143
cover in the case of creatures at least one size category larger
than you. This effect lasts until the start of your next turn.
Graviton-Attuned For the duration, if you don’t have any
cover against an attack targeting you, you gain lesser cover
against that attack.
Photon-Attuned For the duration, if the target you struck
provides you cover against an enemy’s attack, that enemy
takes a –1 circumstance penalty to their attack roll.
MUTABLE MANIFESTATION FEAT 2
SOLARIAN MANIFESTATION
With practice, you can make on-the-fly battlefield adjustments
to your weapon, letting you choose the perfect attack for a
situation. When you Attune, you can change the damage type
of your solar weapon (but not its traits or weapon group), as if
you’d Re-Forged Solar Weapon.
SHATTERING IMPACT [two-actions] FEAT 2
ATTUNED DISHARMONY FLOURISH SOLARIAN
You pour all your effort into making a single attack with
your solar weapon that’s so powerful it shatters the weapon.
Strike with your solar weapon. The Strike deals one additional
weapon damage die. Your solar weapon shatters and must be
manifested to continue using it.
Graviton-Attuned On a hit, the target takes a –10-foot status
penalty to Speed until the start of your next turn.
Photon-Attuned On a hit, you additionally deal persistent fire
damage equal to half your level, rounded up.
SOLAR RAMPART FEAT 2
SOLARIAN
Your training has helped you adapt to bulkier armor. You’re
trained in heavy armor. Whenever you gain a class feature that
grants you expert or greater proficiency in medium armor, you
also gain that proficiency in heavy armor. You treat armor you
wear of 2 Bulk or higher as though it were 1 Bulk lighter (to a
minimum of 1 Bulk).
4TH LEVEL
BLACK HOLE [two-actions] FEAT 4
ATTUNED SOLARIAN
Frequency once per 10 minutes
Requirements You’re graviton-attuned.
You concentrate on the gravitational forces around you, pulling
matter toward you in emulation of a black hole. Select any
number of creatures within 30 feet. Each affected creature
takes 2d8 bludgeoning damage and must attempt a Fortitude
save against your class DC.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage and is pulled 5 feet
toward you.
Failure The creature takes full damage, is pulled 15 feet toward
you, and is off-guard against the next melee attack that you
attempt against it before the end of your current turn.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage, is pulled 30
feet toward you, and is knocked prone.
Level (+2) Increase the damage by 1d8.
COSMIC INFUSION FEAT 4
ATTUNED MANIFESTATION SOLARIAN
You infuse your attunements with additional energy. When
you deal fire damage or persistent fire damage due to being
photon-attuned, you can instead choose to deal vitality damage
or persistent vitality damage, which damages creatures with
void healing, such as undead.
While graviton-attuned, Strikes with your solar weapon
cause the target to count all squares within 10 feet as difficult
terrain, rather than just adjacent squares.
NIMBUS WARD [reaction] OR [one-action] FEAT 4
ATTUNED MANIFESTATION SOLARIAN
Trigger You would be damage by an attack, spell, or other effect.
Requirements You’re aware of the triggering effect and not offguard.
You harness your solar nimbus to protect yourself from
harm. You gain resistance equal to half your level (rounded
up) until the start of your next turn. You choose the type
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key traits in many solarian
class features.
Attuned: You can’t use abilities with the attuned
trait while you’re unattuned. Many attuned abilities
require you to be specifically graviton-attuned or
photon-attuned, while others can grant additional
benefits based on your current stellar attunement.
Cycle: Actions with the cycle trait change your
current stellar attunement to its opposite state. When
you take such an action with this trait, you benefit
from the additional effect of your current attunement
if the action had the attuned trait, but once you
complete the action, your attunement changes to its
counterpart (so graviton-attuned if you were photonattuned
before taking the action, or vice versa).
Disharmony: Actions with the disharmony trait
change your current stellar attunement to being
unattuned. When you take such an action with this
trait, you benefit from the additional effect of your
current attunement if the action had the attuned
trait, but once you complete the action, you become
unattuned.
Flourish: Actions with the flourish trait are special
techniques that require too much exertion for you to
perform frequently. You can only use one action with
the flourish trait per round.
Manifestation: Feats with this trait enhance or
alter your solar manifestations (flare, nimbus, and
weapon) or allow you to create a new type of solar
manifestation.
144
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
of resistance when you use this action, depending on your SHEET
current attunement.
You can use Nimbus Ward as a reaction only when the
requirements and trigger are met, but you can use it as a
1-action activity without the requirements or trigger being met.
Graviton-Attuned Your resistance can be one of the following
types of damage: bludgeoning, force, piercing, or slashing.
Photon-Attuned Your resistance can be one of the following
types of energy damage: acid, cold, electricity, fire, or sonic.
PLASMA EJECTION [two-actions] FEAT 4
ATTUNED CYCLE FLOURISH SOLARIAN
You unleash an ejection of plasma, hitting every creature in
your choice of a 10-foot emanation or in a 30-foot line. Each
creature in the area takes 3d6 fire damage with a basic Reflex
save against your class DC. A creature that critically fails its
save additionally takes 1d8 persistent electricity damage.
Graviton-Attuned A creature that fails its save is knocked
prone.
Photon-Attuned Increase the fire damage to d8s.
Level (+2) The damage increases by 1d6 (or 1d8 if you’re
photon-attuned).
SUPERNOVA [two-actions] FEAT 4
ATTUNED SOLARIAN
Frequency once per 10 minutes
Requirements You’re photon-attuned.
You unleash your pent-up energy, causing it to erupt like the
stellar events that birth and end stars. You can choose to affect
creatures in a 15-foot or 30-foot emanation. Each affected
creature takes 4d8 fire damage and must attempt a Reflex
save against your class DC. If you choose the 30-foot option,
you instead deal 4d6 fire damage.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage and is dazzled for 1
round.
Failure The creature takes full damage and is blinded for 1
round.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and is
blinded for 1 minute.
Level (+1) Increase the damage by 1d8 (or 1d6 for the 30-foot
option).
6TH LEVEL
CONSTELLATION VORTEX [one-action] FEAT 6
ATTUNED CONCENTRATE SOLARIAN
You manifest a copy of your solar weapon, causing it to circle
around you in a vortex, leaving constellation patterns in its wake.
A creature that starts its turn adjacent to you takes damage of
an amount and type equal to the weapon damage of your solar
weapon, with a basic Reflex save against your class DC. If you
already have an active vortex when you use Constellation Vortex,
add another weapon to the vortex instead, up to a maximum of 3
weapons at any time. Each added weapon increases the damage
of the vortex by 1. You can Sustain the vortex for up to 1 minute.
SOLARIAN FEATS BY NAME
Use this table to look up solarian feats by name.
Feat Level
Ascended Stability 12
Attuned Blow 16
Attuned Wards 18
Big Bang 14
Binaric Assault 1
Black Hole 4
Careful Strike 10
Clinging Flare 10
Constellation Vortex 6
Corona 6
Cosmic Alignment 20
Cosmic Infusion 4
Covering Flare 12
Defy Gravity 8
Distant Flare 2
Eclipse Strike 2
Flicker Strike 8
Hampering Flare 1
Harmonic Convergence 16
Homing Mote 18
Meditative Analysis 1
Mindward Shield 8
Feat Level
Momentum 8
Mutable Manifestation 2
Nimbus Block 6
Nimbus Ward 4
Perfectly-Attuned 20
Plasma Ejection 4
Propulsive Shield 8
Shattering Impact 2
Singularity 14
Solar Barrage 6
Solar Rampart 2
Solar Shield 1
Solar Wind 8
Soul Furnace 10
Star Brand 6
Stellar Rush 1
Stellar Shield Collapse 14
Supernova 4
Twin Guard 10
Twin Weapons 1
Unstable Flare 14
Wormhole 12
145
When the vortex ends, it shatters, dealing damage equal
to your level, plus 1 for each weapon in the vortex, to all
adjacent creatures. This damage is of the same type as your
solar weapon.
Graviton-Attuned Increase the damage of the vortex by 2
per weapon (including the first).
Photon-Attuned Add 1 fire damage per weapon (including
the first).
Level (+3) The damage from each additional weapon increases
by 2, and the extra damage from your attunement effect
increases by 1.
CORONA [two-actions] FEAT 6
ATTUNED SOLARIAN
You unleash a corona of stellar energy in a 10-foot emanation,
which lasts until the end of your next turn. You can Sustain
your Corona for up to 1 minute. If your attunement changes,
your Corona’s attunement effect changes to match. While
graviton-attuned, your Corona has the darkness trait. While
photon-attuned, your Corona has the light trait.
Graviton-Attuned Your Corona is darkness that prevents light
from penetrating the area. This acts as a darkness spell
with a spell rank equal to half your level.
Photon-Attuned Your Corona is solar light that sheds bright
light in the area (and dim light for the next 20 feet). While
within your Corona’s bright light, invisible creatures
become concealed, and creatures already concealed are no
longer concealed.
NIMBUS BLOCK FEAT 6
ATTUNED MANIFESTATION SOLARIAN
Prerequisites Nimbus Ward and Solar Shield
You’ve combined the strength of your defensive powers such
that your solar nimbus bolsters your solar shield. When you
Shield Block a melee attack with your solar shield, as long as
either you or your shield take damage from the attack, you
can use Nimbus Ward as a free action.
SOLAR BARRAGE [two-actions] FEAT 6
ATTUNED DISHARMONY FLOURISH SOLARIAN
You can fire off multiple shots with your solar flare in short
succession. Make three solar flare Strikes against different
targets, each with a –2 circumstance penalty. These attacks
count toward your multiple attack penalty, but the penalty
doesn’t increase until after you’ve made the attacks.
STAR BRAND [one-action] FEAT 6
ATTUNED MANIFESTATION SOLARIAN
Requirements Your last action was a successful solar flare or
solar weapon Strike against a creature.
You brand the creature with potent solar energy that keeps
it visible and attracts your solar flare. When targeting the
branded creature, increase the range increment of your
solar flare by 60 feet. If the branded creature is invisible, or
later becomes invisible, it’s concealed instead. If the branded
creature was already concealed for any other reason, it’s no
longer concealed.
DEGRADANT
The irresistible, all-consuming power of black holes
flows through you, allowing you to manipulate gravity
in stunning deeds.
Attributes
Make Strength highest, followed by Constitution. Add
to Dexterity and Wisdom for better defenses.
Skills
Acrobatics, Athletics, Computers, Survival, Thievery
Solar Weapon
Polearm (disarm, reach)
Feats
Stellar Rush (1st), Black Hole (4th), Defy Gravity (8th),
Wormhole (12th)
Sample Solarian
146
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
The brand lasts 10 minutes but ends immediately if the
branded creature is slain or you Star Brand a different
creature.
8TH LEVEL
DEFY GRAVITY FEAT 8
ATTUNED SOLARIAN
You break the bonds of gravity. While graviton-attuned, you
gain a fly Speed equal to your Speed.
FLICKER STRIKE [two-actions] FEAT 8
ATTUNED CYCLE SOLARIAN TELEPORTATION
You attack a target with your solar weapon, harnessing the
collision’s energy to attack another foe at the speed of light.
Make a Strike with your solar weapon. On a hit, you teleport
up to your Speed into an unoccupied square within reach
of a different creature and then immediately make a solar
weapon Strike against them. If your initial Strike fails, you
don’t teleport, and the action ends.
Graviton-Attuned Increase the range to double your Speed.
Photon-Attuned If a Strike made as part of this action is a
critical success, the struck target is dazzled until the end
of its next turn.
MINDWARD SHIELD FEAT 8
ATTUNED MANIFESTATION SOLARIAN
Prerequisites Solar Shield
Your solar shield acts as an anchor for your mind as much as
your body. When your Raise your solar Shield, you gain the
shield’s circumstance bonus to Will saves. In addition, while
you have your solar shield raised, you can Shield Block when
you take damage as a result of a failed Will save, in addition
to its usual trigger. If you do, the triggering damage bypasses
your solar shield’s object immunities.
MOMENTUM [one-action] FEAT 8
ATTUNED FLOURISH SOLARIAN
Requirements Your last action was a successful solar weapon
Strike.
You use the momentum of your last attack to maneuver
around the battlefield, either by leaving photonic images or
making great gravity-assisted leaps. Step twice.
Graviton-Attuned You move 10 feet with each Step, rather
than 5 feet.
Photon-Attuned You leave an afterimage in the square you
started in. This image lasts until the end of your next turn
but ends early if another creature enters the space. This
afterimage counts as an ally to you and your allies for the
purposes of flanking.
PROPULSIVE SHIELD FEAT 8
ATTUNED SOLARIAN
Prerequisites Solar Shield
You fire blasts of solar energy through your raised shield,
harnessing its gravitational force to propel your attacks.
When you make a solar flare Strike while you have your solar
shield raised, increase the range increment of your solar flare
by 10 feet and increase the damage your solar flare deals by
1 per weapon damage die.
Graviton-Attuned The additional damage is bludgeoning
damage. You gain a +2 circumstance bonus to the Trip
attempt on a critical success.
Photon-Attuned The additional damage is fire damage.
Increase the persistent fire damage on a critical success
to 1d8.
SOLAR WIND FEAT 8
ATTUNED SOLARIAN
You can partly discorporate your body, becoming a blur of
stellar matter pushed by invisible solar winds. While photonattuned,
you gain a +10-foot circumstance bonus to Speed
and can move through the space of a single unwilling creature
each time you Stride.
10TH LEVEL
CAREFUL STRIKE [one-action] FEAT 10
ATTUNED FLOURISH SOLARIAN
You focus on your solar weapon’s trajectory so you can adjust
it up to the last possible moment and turn a missed attack
into a glancing blow. Make a Strike with your solar flare or
solar weapon. It gains the following failure effect.
Failure Your attack deals damage equal to your Strength
modifier. It doesn’t count as a hit and doesn’t trigger any
other special abilities.
CLINGING FLARE [one-action] FEAT 10
ATTUNED CYCLE FLOURISH SOLARIAN
Your flare wraps around your foes on impact, entangling them.
Make a solar flare Strike. On a hit, the target is immobilized
until the end of its next turn or until it Escapes (against your
class DC), whichever comes first. On a critical hit, the target is
additionally off-guard for as long as it’s immobilized.
SOUL FURNACE [one-action] FEAT 10
CONCENTRATION HEALING SOLARIAN
Frequency once per affliction every 24 hours
Your soul becomes fuel, burning away your life force to purge
an affliction. Choose a disease or poison you’re afflicted by.
Lose a number of Hit Points equal to the level of the affliction.
Attempt a new saving throw against the affliction, as though
you were at the end of its listed interval. If you fail or critically
fail this save, don’t increase the affliction’s stage.
TWIN GUARD [reaction] FEAT 10
SOLARIAN
Prerequisites Twin Weapons
Trigger A creature within your reach critically hits you with a
melee Strike, and you’re wielding two solar weapons.
You raise one of your weapons to intercept a particularly
deadly attack. You gain resistance equal to your level against
the triggering attack. One of your solar weapons shatters and
is no longer manifested.
147
12TH LEVEL
ASCENDED STABILITY [reaction] FEAT 12
ATTUNED SOLARIAN
Trigger You would cycle or become unattuned.
You briefly enter a meditative state in which you re‑center
yourself and remember the ever-shifting balance between
the violent extremes of the cycle. You don’t become
unattuned or cycle, and you remain in your current
attunement state.
COVERING FLARE [two-actions] FEAT 12
ATTUNED FLOURISH SOLARIAN
You use your solar flare to cover yourself as you close in
on your foes. You Stride twice; at any point during this
movement, you can make a solar flare Strike. On a hit, the
target is also suppressed until the end of its next turn.
WORMHOLE [two-actions] FEAT 12
ATTUNED CYCLE SOLARIAN TELEPORTATION
Frequency once per hour
You force a rip in space that acts as a tunnel to a nearby
location. Create two wormholes in unoccupied squares in
line of effect that are within 100 feet, visible to you, and at
least 15 feet apart. When a creature enters a wormhole’s
space, they emerge in an unoccupied space of their choice
adjacent to the other wormhole. A creature that isn’t
flying treats all spaces lacking solid ground as occupied.
If there’s no valid space for the creature to enter, then
both wormholes collapse and the creature remains in the
space where it entered the first wormhole. The wormholes
last for 1 round before collapsing, but you can Sustain
the wormholes for up to 1 minute. Use your attunement
when you take the Wormhole action to determine its
attuned effects.
Graviton-Attuned A creature beginning its turn adjacent
to a wormhole must succeed at a Fortitude save against
your class DC or be pulled into the wormhole.
Photon-Attuned A creature entering the wormhole becomes
concealed until the start of its next turn.
14TH LEVEL
BIG BANG [three-actions] FEAT 14
ATTUNED DISHARMONY SOLARIAN
Frequency once per hour
Requirements You’re photon-attuned.
You manifest a fragment of the cosmic forces from the
Universe’s first moments, unleashing a blast of scouring
cosmic fire that reverts all things to their basic components
and overcomes even magical defenses. This deals 10d6 fire
damage to all creatures in a 30-foot emanation. You and any
number of adjacent allies are unaffected by this Big Bang.
Affected creatures can attempt a Reflex save against your
class DC.
Critical Success The creature is unaffected.
Success The creature takes half damage.
Failure The creature takes full damage and 2d6 persistent
fire damage.
Critical Failure The creature takes double damage and 4d6
persistent fire damage, and you can attempt to counteract
a spell on the creature, using half your level, rounded up,
as the counteract rank.
Level (+1) Increase the damage by 1d6.
SINGULARITY [three-actions] FEAT 14
ATTUNED DARKNESS DEATH DISHARMONY SOLARIAN
Frequency once per hour
Requirements You’re graviton-attuned.
You call upon a shred of the unstoppable cosmic force
that eventually destroys all things. You concentrate and
manifest the pinpoint center of a black hole within 60
feet. This occupies a single 5-foot space. Creatures within
the singularity’s space take 10d8 void damage with a basic
Reflex save against your class DC. Any creature dropped to
0 Hit Points by this effect is torn asunder and pulled into
the singularity, leaving no remains. Until the end of your
next turn, light can’t pass through the singularity’s space
and all adjacent squares, shrouding it in darkness that even
creatures with darkvision or greater darkvision can’t see
through. Any creature that starts its turn in the darkness
must succeed at a basic Fortitude save against your class
DC or become slowed 1 for that turn.
Level (+2) Increase the damage by 2d8.
STELLAR SHIELD COLLAPSE [reaction] FEAT 14
ATTUNED SOLARIAN
Prerequisites Solar Shield plus either Black Hole or
Supernova
Trigger Your Solar Shield is destroyed while you have it
raised.
Requirements You haven’t used Black Hole or Supernova
within the last 10 minutes.
Your solar shield collapses in on itself.
Graviton-Attuned Immediately use Black Hole as a free
action (if you have the Black Hole feat).
Photon-Attuned Immediately use Supernova as a free action
(if you have the Supernova feat).
UNSTABLE FLARE [two-actions] FEAT 14
ATTUNED DISHARMONY FLOURISH SOLARIAN
Prerequisites Solar Barrage
You supercharge your solar flare and unleash multiple
simultaneous blasts at all foes in an area. Make a solar flare
Strike with a –2 circumstance penalty against each enemy
in a 15-foot burst centered on any point within your solar
flare’s first range increment. Each attack counts toward
your multiple attack penalty, but you don’t increase your
penalty until you’ve made all your attacks.
Graviton-Attuned You can Stride up to half your speed once
as a free action immediately before or after making your
attacks.
Photon-Attuned You’re concealed to each target of this
attack until the start of your next turn.
148
3
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
16TH LEVEL
ATTUNED BLOW FEAT 16
SOLARIAN
You can use your manifestations immediately upon
attuning yourself. When you Attune as a single action, you
can make a Strike with your solar flare or solar weapon as
a free action.
HARMONIC CONVERGENCE FEAT 16
SOLARIAN
Dissonance grants you some clarity and a brief second wind
in stressful situations. When you use an action with the
disharmony trait, you gain a number of temporary Hit Points
equal to half your level until the start of your next turn.
18TH LEVEL
ATTUNED WARDS FEAT 18
ATTUNED SOLARIAN
You extend your control of stellar forces to punish your foes.
Creatures that hit you with an attack suffer consequences
based on your attunement.
Graviton-Attuned The creature is clumsy 1 and off-guard for
1 round. This increases to clumsy 2 if this is the second
time it hit you this turn.
Photon-Attuned The creature takes persistent fire damage
equal to half your level.
HOMING MOTE FEAT 18
MANIFESTATION SOLARIAN
You’ve come to rely on ranged motes as much as you do
your solar weapon. Triple the range increment of your solar
flare. When you make a solar flare Strike against a target
within your first range increment, you ignore the target’s
concealment and cover.
20TH LEVEL
COSMIC ALIGNMENT FEAT 20
SOLARIAN
You reach true alignment with the cosmic cycle. You’re
permanently quickened. You can use your extra action
only to Attune or make a Strike with your solar flare or
solar weapon.
PERFECTLY-ATTUNED FEAT 20
ATTUNED SOLARIAN
You have absolute control and understanding of your
attunement with the stellar forces of the cosmos. If you
would become graviton- or photon-attuned, you instead
become perfectly-attuned. When you’re perfectly-attuned,
you can choose which attunement bonus to benefit from
(either graviton- or photon-attuned) when using any of
your abilities. If any of your abilities require you to be in
a specific attunement state, being perfectly-attuned counts
as your choice of graviton- or photon-attuned.
149
150
3
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS...
You set yourself up on the battlefield to rain down fire with heavy weapons. You
defy damage and keep your comrades safe from foes as they target you.
DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS...
You might stand back and let others do the talking, using your menacing presence
to remind others not to mess with your allies. Sometimes you might surprise others
with an insightful take.
WHILE EXPLORING...
You’re at the front of the group. You position yourself so you can unload a magazine
into any ambush that might pop up while body blocking for your allies.
IN DOWNTIME...
You might join a military, perform physical labor, or take mercenary jobs when
you need credits. You likely spend time training at a gym or tinkering with your
weapons and shopping for new ammunition and upgrades.
YOU MIGHT...
• Use your heavy weapons to demand enemy attention in combat, enjoying the
challenge of battle while soaking attacks for your allies.
• Rush forward, knowing that your bulk and endurance will see you through.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Rely on you to lead the charge and take incoming fire.
• Assume there’s not much of a personality or intellect under all that armor.
• Appreciate your menacing presence at the negotiating table.
CLASS FEATURES
You gain these abilities as a soldier. Abilities gained at higher levels list the level at
which you gain them next to the features’ names.
ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, you have the benefits of
your selected ancestry and background, as described in Chapter 2.
SOLDIER
You’re a master of area weapons, heavy armor, and soaking damage. You fight in the thick of the
battle and unleash devastating salvos against your foes as you take withering fire in return. By laying
down a barrage of suppressing fire with powerful weapons, you set your allies up to fulfill their
respective roles while encouraging enemies to focus on you.
HIT POINTS
10 + Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
KEY ATTRIBUTE
Constitution
At 1st level, your class gives you
an attribute boost to Constitution.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a better
proficiency rank in some other way.
PERCEPTION
Trained in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Expert in Fortitude
Trained in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in Intimidation
Trained in a number of additional
skills equal to 3 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in martial weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in all armor
Trained in unarmored defense
CLASS DC
Trained in soldier class DC
151
ATTRIBUTE BOOSTS
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, you
have four free boosts to different attribute modifiers.
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you get four free
boosts to different attribute modifiers. If an attribute modifier
is already +4 or higher, it takes two boosts to increase it; you
get a partial boost and must boost that attribute again at a
later level to increase it by 1.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain a number of proficiencies that represent
your basic training. These proficiencies are noted at the start
of this class.
SUPPRESSING FIRE
You have a knack for using powerful weapons to harry your
foes and hinder their movement, preventing them from
operating at their peak. If you make an attack with a weapon
that has the area trait (such as from the Area Fire or Auto-Fire
actions), you use it in a manner that suppresses your targets.
Enemies in the affected area who fail their save against your
attack become suppressed (page 440) until the start of your
next turn. A suppressed target takes a –1 circumstance penalty
on attack rolls and takes a –10-foot status penalty to its Speeds.
Some soldier abilities and class feats interact further with the
suppressed condition.
PRIMARY TARGET
You can focus fire on a single target when unleashing the
full devastation of your powerful area weaponry. Before you
make an area attack with a weapon (such as from the Area
Fire or Auto-Fire actions), you can make a ranged Strike as a
free action with the same weapon against a single creature
in the area, who’s selected as your primary target. If your
attack is a burst, you must select the creature closest to the
center of the attack. If your attack is a cone or line, you must
select the creature closest to you. If two or more creatures are
equidistant, you can choose which one is your primary target.
On a hit, if your primary target rolls a success against your
Area Fire or Auto-Fire action, they get a failure instead. This
Strike doesn’t count toward your multiple attack penalty.
SOLDIER FIGHTING STYLE
As a soldier, you train using a specific style of fighting. Your
style determines how you approach combat and often changes
how you take advantage of your ability to suppress targets.
Choose a soldier fighting style. The fighting styles presented in
this book are as follows.
Action Hero
You believe that anything can be solved by shooting your way
out. Somehow, your bravado and over-the-top actions have
a way of working out for you, despite logic often suggesting
otherwise. To you, there’s no problem that a barrage of bullets
or laser blasts can’t fix. You’ve become a specialist at dealing
out devastation with automatic weapons, whether you’re
fighting on the front line, operating a turret in a speeding
vehicle, or blasting through a crowd of enemies.
When you successfully make a ranged Strike with an
automatic weapon, you suppress the target until the start of
your next turn. In addition, when you Auto-Fire, the size of
the cone is equal to the weapon’s full range increment, rather
than half. When using the Auto-Fire action, you can designate
a target anywhere in the cone to be your primary target, rather
than the creature closest to you.
Armor Storm
Your armor feels like a part of you and stands up to heavy fire
in the thick of battle. Your armor absorbs greater damage from
attacks made by enemies you’ve suppressed. In a fight, you
likely body block or stand in front and try to keep the enemy’s
ire, trusting your armor to keep you alive.
You never count as being in the area of a ranged weapon
you’ve made an attack with. You gain resistance equal to half
your level (minimum 1) to all damage against attacks made by
suppressed targets.
You don’t need a free hand to Disarm, Grapple, Reposition,
Shove, or Trip. You gain a +1 status bonus on Athletics checks to
Disarm, Grapple, Reposition, Shove, and Trip suppressed foes.
SOLDIER ADVANCEMENT
Your Level Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, attribute boosts,
initial proficiencies, suppressing fire, primary
target, soldier fighting style, walking armory,
soldier feat
2 Skill feat, soldier feat
3
Fearsome bulwark, general feat, reflex
expertise, skill increase
4 Skill feat, soldier feat
5
Ancestry feat, attribute boosts, perception
expertise, skill increase, soldier weapon
expert
6 Skill feat, soldier feat
7
Armor expertise, general feat, skill increase,
soldier expertise, tough as nails, weapon
specialization
8 Skill feat, soldier feat
9 Ancestry feat, skill increase
10 Attribute boosts, skill feat, soldier feat
11 General feat, skill increase, soldier’s resolution
12 Skill feat, soldier feat
13 Ancestry feat, armor mastery, skill increase
14 Skill feat, soldier feat
15
Attribute boosts, general feat, skill increase,
soldier weapon mastery, unshakable
juggernaut
16 Skill feat, soldier feat
17 Ancestry feat, legendary armor, skill increase
18 Skill feat, soldier feat
19 General feat, legendary soldier, skill increase
20 Attribute boosts, skill feat, soldier feat
152
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
When you successfully Disarm, Grapple, Reposition, Shove, or
Trip a creature, it becomes suppressed until the start of your
next turn.
Bombard
There’s nothing like a big gun (or maybe several) to get you
through tough times. You’ve come to terms with the fact that
a stray bullet from one of your barrages might sometimes hit
an ally, but you try to minimize such instances of “friendly fire.”
You’ve trained to avoid harming allies with your barrages and
learned to expertly position your attacks around them.
When you attack with an area weapon, you can select a
number of allies within the area equal to half your Constitution
modifier. The selected allies are unaffected by the attack. In
addition, enemies who succeed (but not critically succeed) on
their save against an area attack you make are still suppressed
until the start of your next turn.
Close Quarters
While you have the necessary training to employ heavy
weapons, you believe it’s important to keep a backup for when
foes get too close. You might be a veteran Veskarium trooper
who knows their way around a doshko or a devotee of Zon-
Shelyn dealing holy wrath with a painglaive. Blows with heavy
close combat weapons hinder your foes just as effectively as
when you fire a rotolaser or a missile launcher.
As long as you’re wielding a two-handed melee weapon, you
meet the requirements for soldier feats that require an area
weapon. When you’re using a soldier feat, any two-handed
melee weapon you’re wielding gains area (burst 5 feet), and
you’re unaffected by your attacks with that weapon. You can
make a melee Strike with a two-handed melee weapon instead
of a ranged Strike with primary target or any soldier feat. In
addition, you gain the Whirling Swipe feat (page 155).
Erudite Warrior
You realize that not every situation should be solved with
a gun. You’re an intellectual as well as a warrior, solving
problems logically and learning about the galaxy. You keep
your mind sharp with formal education or self-guided study.
When logic breaks down, you’re always ready to fall back on
your combat training.
Choose either Diplomacy or Society. You become trained in
the chosen skill and one Lore skill of your choice. When you
gain armor expertise, you gain expert proficiency in Diplomacy
or Society (whichever you selected) and the Lore skill you
selected. This increases to master proficiency when you gain
armor mastery, and to legendary proficiency when you gain
legendary armor. You also gain the Oppressive Presence action.
OPPRESSIVE PRESENCE [one-action]
SOLDIER
Frequency once per round
You unnerve foes with a look, or similarly unsettle them with
subtle mannerisms or veiled threats. One enemy creature of
your choice within 60 feet becomes suppressed until the start
of your next turn. If the creature targets you with a Strike or
other offensive action, it loses the suppressed condition from
this effect.
WALKING ARMORY
Your endurance training empowers you to carry a load of heavy
equipment. When determining your Strength for using armor,
you can instead choose to use your Constitution modifier. If
you already meet the Strength requirement for the armor
you’re wearing, reduce that armor’s Bulk by 1 (to a minimum
of 1).
In addition, increase the amount of Bulk you can carry
before becoming encumbered by half your Constitution
modifier rounded up. Increase your maximum carried Bulk by
your Constitution modifier.
SOLDIER FEATS
At 1st level and every even-numbered level, you gain a soldier
class feat. These begin on page 155.
SKILL FEATS 2ND
At 2nd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill feat.
Skill feats can be found in Chapter 5 and have the skill trait.
You must be trained or better in the corresponding skill to
select a skill feat.
FEARSOME BULWARK 3RD
Your sheer bulk terrifies foes, clearing a path for you on the
battlefield. You can use your Constitution modifier instead of
your Charisma modifier on Intimidation checks to Coerce or
Demoralize and instead of your Strength modifier on Athletics
checks to Reposition or Shove.
GENERAL FEATS 3RD
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a general
feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
REFLEX EXPERTISE 3RD
You’ve developed a knack for dodging danger. Your proficiency
rank for Reflex saves increases to expert.
SKILL INCREASES 3RD
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
increase. You can use this increase either to increase your
proficiency rank to trained in one skill you’re untrained in, or
to increase your proficiency rank in one skill in which you’re
already trained to expert.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase your
proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you’re already
an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to increase your
proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in which you’re already
a master.
ANCESTRY FEATS 5TH
In addition to the initial ancestry feat you started with, you
gain an ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter.
The list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in your
ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
153
PERCEPTION EXPERTISE 5TH
You remain alert to threats around you. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to expert.
SOLDIER WEAPON EXPERT 5TH
Through practical experience, you’ve learned how to use
your weapons in a way that both pulverizes your foes
and best takes advantage of your area attacks. Your
proficiency ranks for simple weapons, martial weapons,
and unarmed attacks increases to expert. You gain access
to the critical specialization effects of weapons with the
area or automatic traits.
ARMOR EXPERTISE 7TH
You have grown accustomed to wearing armor and
can make the most of its protection. Your proficiency
ranks for light armor, medium armor, heavy armor, and
unarmored defense increase to expert. You gain the armor
specialization effects of medium and heavy armor.
SOLDIER EXPERTISE 7TH
Your ability to unleash area attacks and utilize your
equipment improves. Your proficiency rank for your soldier
class DC increases to expert.
TOUGH AS NAILS 7TH
Your proficiency rank for Fortitude saves increases to
master. When you roll a success on a Fortitude save, you
get a critical success instead.
154
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 7TH
You inflict greater injuries with the weapons you know
best. You deal 2 additional damage with weapons and
unarmed attacks in which you’re an expert. This damage
increases to 3 if you’re a master, and 4 if you’re legendary.
SOLDIER’S RESOLUTION 11TH
Your proficiency rank for Will saves increases to master.
When you roll a success on a Will save, you get a critical
success instead.
ARMOR MASTERY 13TH
Your skill with armor further improves. Your proficiency
ranks for light armor, medium armor, heavy armor, and
unarmored defense increase to master.
SOLDIER WEAPON MASTERY 15TH
Through skill and dedication, you’ve mastered devastating
weapons. Your proficiency rank for your soldier class DC
increases to master. Your proficiency ranks for unarmed
attacks, simple weapons, and martial weapons increase to
master.
UNSHAKABLE JUGGERNAUT 15TH
Your proficiency rank for Fortitude saves increases to
legendary. When you roll a critical failure on a Fortitude
save, you get a failure instead. When you fail a Fortitude
save against an effect that deals damage, you halve the
damage you take.
LEGENDARY ARMOR 17TH
Your skill with armor is unparalleled. Your proficiency
ranks for light armor, medium armor, heavy armor, and
unarmored defense increase to legendary.
LEGENDARY SOLDIER 19TH
You’re a legendary hero (or outlaw) of the galaxy renowned
for the rain of destruction you unleash on a battlefield.
Your proficiency rank for your soldier class DC increases
to legendary.
SOLDIER FEATS
At every level that you gain a soldier feat, you can
select one of the following feats. You must satisfy any
prerequisites before selecting the feat.
1ST LEVEL
BURST OF STRENGTH [reaction] FEAT 1
FORTUNE SOLDIER
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You fail an Athletics check to Disarm, Grapple,
Reposition, Shove, or Trip.
You draw on your inner reserves and rally yourself to try
again. Reroll the triggering check, but you must use the
new result, even if it’s worse.
PIN DOWN [reaction] FEAT 1
SOLDIER
Trigger A creature you’re observing succeeds at their
saving throw against your Area Fire or Auto-Fire attack.
You focus your weapons fire on a resilient target in order
to suppress them with the sheer ferocity of your assault.
The required target must succeed at a Will save against
your class DC or become suppressed until the start of your
next turn.
QUICK SWAP [reaction] FEAT 1
SOLDIER
Trigger You’re wielding a two-handed weapon, and an
enemy creature moves adjacent to you.
You can switch weapons in stressful situations so that
you quickly set yourself up to punish incoming foes. You
stow your current weapon and draw another two-handed
weapon. If you have multiple sets of arms, you can instead
Switch Hands (page 254).
READY RELOAD [one-action] FEAT 1
SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding a two-handed ranged weapon
with a reload of 2 or more, and your last action was an
attack that expended ammo from the weapon.
You know that reloading a weapon can be a delicate
process, but you’ve mastered how to do so in the middle of
combat, starting while still in the act of firing your weapon.
Reduce your weapon’s reload cost by 1, then Interact to
reload your weapon. Unlike most Interact actions, you
don’t need a free hand to reload your ranged weapon in
this way.
WHIRLING SWIPE [two-actions] FEAT 1
SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding a two-handed melee
weapon.
You swipe your weapon in a wide swing to create a deadly
arc. Your weapon gains the area (burst 5 feet) and unwieldy
traits until the end of the turn. If your weapon has reach, the
burst radius becomes the reach of your weapon. Area Fire
with the required weapon, centering the burst on a corner
of a square you occupy. You’re excluded from the burst. If
you’re using a weapon with the backswing or sweep trait,
you gain a +1 circumstance bonus to the save DC of the
attack. If you have the primary target class feature, the
primary target Strike you make is a melee Strike, rather
than a ranged Strike.
2ND LEVEL
MENACING LAUGHTER [one-action] FEAT 2
AUDITORY SOLDIER
Your laughter (or other vocalization) remains audible over
the din of your weapons fire. Attempt an Intimidation
check to Demoralize each creature within 30 feet who’s
suppressed.
155
RELENTLESS ENDURANCE [reaction] FEAT 2
SOLDIER
Frequency once per hour
Trigger You take damage.
You bounce back stronger after a hit, ready to continue the
fight. You gain 1d8+4 temporary Hit Points that last for 1
minute. Increase this amount by 1d8+4 at 6th level and
every 4 levels thereafter.
SHOT ON THE RUN [two-actions] FEAT 2
SOLDIER TRAVERSAL
Requirements You’re wielding an area or automatic weapon.
By preparing your weapon while on the move, you ready
yourself to fire a salvo as soon as you’re in position. Stride
up to your Speed, and then Area Fire or Auto-Fire.
YOU’LL HAVE TO GO THROUGH ME! [two-actions] FEAT 2
SOLDIER
You brace yourself as you prepare to defend your allies
behind you. You Area Fire or Auto-Fire. Until the start of
your next turn or until you use a move action, whichever
happens first, you gain the Living Shield reaction and, if
you would be moved by a forced movement effect, you
move 10 feet less.
Living Shield [reaction] Trigger An ally you’re providing cover to
or adjacent to is damaged by an enemy; Effect Reduce
the triggering damage by an amount equal to your level
plus your Constitution modifier. You take an amount of
damage equal to the damage negated.
4TH LEVEL
COLLATERAL WITNESS [reaction] FEAT 4
SOLDIER
Trigger You reduce your primary target to 0 Hit Points using
Auto-Fire.
With a subtle gesture of your weapon and a stare, you
remind a survivor of your onslaught that there’s more where
that came from. Demoralize a single creature that was in
the area of your Auto-Fire; you gain a +2 circumstance
bonus to this check. If you have legendary proficiency in
Intimidation, or if you have the action hero fighting style
and the target of Collateral Witness is the enemy closest to
you, you can use this as a free action with the same trigger.
OVERWHELMING ASSAULT FEAT 4
SOLDIER
You overwhelm the defenses of suppressed foes. Your
multiple attack penalty for attacks against suppressed
targets is –4 (–3 with an agile weapon) on your second
attack of the turn instead of –5, and –8 (–7 with an agile
weapon) on your third and subsequent attacks of the turn
instead of –10.
PUNISHING SALVO [one-action] FEAT 4
SOLDIER
Requirements Your last action this turn was an Area Fire
attack.
You know unleashing a barrage of gunfire can bring most
enemies low. You make a follow-up Strike against your
primary target using the same weapon. Ignore the unwieldy
trait on your weapon when using this action. This doesn’t
make a new area attack and is treated as a Strike made
using primary target.
SHOVING SHOT [two-actions] FEAT 4
SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding an area or automatic weapon.
You use the blast of your weapon to push back your
adversaries. You Area Fire or Auto-Fire. Your primary target
must attempt a Fortitude save against your class DC.
Failure The target is pushed back 10 feet. If using an area
(burst) weapon, the target is pushed away from the
burst’s center point.
Critical Failure As failure, but the target is pushed 15 feet.
WIDEN AREA [one-action] FEAT 4
MANIPULATE SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding an area or automatic weapon.
You set up your area weapon to affect more targets. If the
next action you use is to Area Fire or Auto-Fire in a burst,
cone, or line, or if you use Whirling Swipe, you increase
the area of that attack. Add 5 feet to the radius of a burst
that normally has a radius of at least 10 feet (a burst with
a smaller radius isn’t affected). Add 5 feet to the length of
a cone or line that’s normally 15 feet or smaller, and add 10
feet to the length of a larger cone or line.
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in many soldier
class features.
Area Fire: This is a special action usually made with
weapons that have the area trait. This type of action
is used to launch weapons that affect a wide area,
such as a burst, cone, or line. See page 410 for more
details on area weapons and the Area Fire action.
Auto-Fire: This is a special action usually made
with weapons that have the automatic trait. This type
of action is used to fire weapons in rapid succession,
affecting all foes in a wide cone. See page 410 for
more details on automatic weapons and the Auto-Fire
action.
Suppressed: Suppressed is a condition often
applied by the soldier when using area and automatic
weapons against targets. Creatures a soldier
suppresses might receive additional conditions and
other negative effects using feats with the suppressed
trait; a soldier can only apply one such feat each time
they use an action that confers the suppressed trait.
For more information on suppressed, see page 440.
156
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
6TH LEVEL
COVERING FIRE [one-action] OR [two-actions] FEAT 6
SOLDIER
You make a well placed shot or unleash a hail of fire to cover
your allies. Make a ranged Strike against a target and select
one ally within range of the same attack. If your Strike hits
your target, you deal no damage, but the targeted creature
becomes suppressed and takes a –2 circumstance penalty
on attacks made against your ally until the end of your next
turn.
You can use Covering Fire as a 2-action activity to Area
Fire or Auto-Fire instead of making a ranged Strike, affecting
targets that fail their save.
FOG OF WAR [two-actions] FEAT 6
SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding an area or automatic weapon.
The flash and smoke from your frenzied gunfire conceals
you from any enemies who might be left standing in the
aftermath. You Area Fire or Auto-Fire. You leave behind a
cloud of smoke and dust within the area that lasts until the
end of your next turn or until dissipated by a strong wind
(whichever happens first). Creatures in the area have the
concealed condition, and all other creatures are concealed
to them.
I’LL BE BACK [free-action] FEAT 6
SOLDIER
Frequency once per day
Trigger You regain consciousness after being unconscious.
Even when you’re downed, you get right back into the thick
of things once recovered. You Stand and Interact to draw a
weapon or grab an unattended weapon.
INTIMIDATING TAUNT [one-action] FEAT 6
CONCENTRATE MENTAL SOLDIER
Prerequisites trained in Intimidation
You taunt your enemy mercilessly, forcing them to
acknowledge you as an immediate threat. Attempt an
Intimidation check and compare it to the Will DC of
one enemy creature within 60 feet. This action has the
auditory trait or visual trait, depending on how you taunt
your enemy.
Critical Success Your taunts sting hard. Until the start of
your next turn, any hostile actions that the creature
takes must include you as a target or include you in the
area; otherwise, the creature takes a –2 circumstance
penalty to attack rolls and to its save DC for those
hostile actions.
Success As critical success, but only the first hostile action
that the creature takes is affected.
Failure The creature is unaffected.
SOLDIER FEATS BY NAME
Use this table to look up soldier feats by name.
Feat Level
Ammo Hoarder 8
Anchoring Impacts 10
Bring It On! 8
Brutal Barrage 10
Bullet Hell 12
Bullet Typhoon 20
Burst of Strength 1
Collateral Witness 4
Come Get Some! 10
Concentrated Shot 8
Coordinated Fire 18
Covering Fire 6
Damoritosh’s Grip 18
Dance! 10
Death Blossom 12
Fan the Hammer 14
Fog of War 6
Hammer the Nail 12
Hybrid Technique 20
I’ll Be Back 6
Intimidating Taunt 6
Light ‘Em Up 16
Load-Bearing Hero 12
Menacing Laughter 2
Feat Level
Offensive Defense 6
Overkill 16
Overwatch 8
Overwhelming Assault 4
Pin Down 1
Punishing Salvo 4
Punitive Strike 6
Quick Swap 1
Ready Reload 1
Relentless Endurance 2
Rocket Jump 12
Run Hot 8
Run, Cowards! 14
Scattering Fire 14
Shell Shower 10
Shot on the Run 2
Shoving Shot 4
Soldier’s Training 16
Spread the Love 18
Terror-Forming 14
Vector Reflector 14
Whirling Swipe 1
Widen Area 4
You’ll Have To Go Through Me! 2
157
OFFENSIVE DEFENSE [two-actions] FEAT 6
SOLDIER
Requirements You have a force field upgrade in your armor or
are holding a tech shield.
You overcharge a shield to create a concussive blast that
repulses nearby foes. You Area Fire using your force field or
shield, dealing 2d10 bludgeoning damage in a 5-foot radius
burst centered on one corner of a square you occupy. This
attack has the tracking +1 trait and is in the shield weapon
group. A creature that fails its save is pushed back 5 feet. If
you have the primary target class feature, the primary target
Strike uses your force field or shield.
Special If you’re using a force field or shield that’s superior or
better, the tracking trait increases to +2, or +3 if ultimate or
better. Likewise, if it’s elite or better, the damage increases
to 3d10, or 4d10 if paragon.
PUNITIVE STRIKE [reaction] FEAT 6
SOLDIER
Trigger A creature within your reach uses a manipulate action,
makes a ranged Strike, uses a move action, or leaves a
square during a move action it’s using.
Your foe’s momentary lapse in defense gives you an opening
Make a melee Strike against the triggering creature, ignoring
the unwieldy trait on any weapons you’re wielding for this
Strike. This Strike doesn’t count toward your multiple attack
penalty, and your multiple attack penalty doesn’t apply to
this Strike.
8TH LEVEL
AMMO HOARDER FEAT 8
SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding an automatic weapon.
By using direct and methodical burst fire, you conserve
your ammunition without compromising your destructive
potential. Your Auto-Fire has an expend equal to the number
of targets in the area, rather than the number of targets
in the area × 2.
BRING IT ON! [one-action] FEAT 8
SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding a two-handed
weapon.
Your sheet bravado bolsters your defenses despite
your recklessness. Until the start of your next
turn, you take a –2 circumstance penalty to AC and gain
resistance to all damage equal to half your level. If you have
the armor storm fighting style, this resistance is doubled
against attacks made by suppressed creatures.
CONCENTRATED SHOT [two-actions] FEAT 8
FLOURISH SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding an automatic weapon.
Focusing your fire enables you to target an enemy for
immediate destruction. Make a ranged Strike with an automatic
weapon, expending three times the ammo and gaining a +4
FRONTLINER
You lay down heavy fire with big guns while body
blocking for your allies.
Attributes
Prioritize Constitution, followed by Dexterity for
wielding your zero cannon and Wisdom for your
Perception and Will saves.
Skills
Athletics, Warfare Lore
Fighting Style
Bombard
Feats
Pin Down (1st), Shot on the Run (2nd), Covering Fire
(6th), Terror-Forming (14th)
Sample Soldier
158
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
circumstance bonus to damage. This bonus increases to +6 at
11th level and +8 at 15th level.
OVERWATCH [reaction] FEAT 8
SOLDIER
Trigger A suppressed creature within your weapon’s first range
increment makes a ranged attack or leaves a square during a
move action it’s using.
You concentrate fire on a specific target operating within
your weapon’s threat range. Make a ranged Strike against the
triggering creature, ignoring the unwieldy trait of weapons you
wield for this Strike. On a critical hit, if the triggering action
was a move action, you disrupt that action.
RUN HOT [three-actions] FEAT 8
SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding an area weapon.
You hold down the trigger and push your weapons to their
absolute limits with a ceaseless barrage of firepower. Area Fire
twice with the required weapon, ignoring the unwieldy trait
of your weapon. Creatures in the area of the second Area Fire
attack gain a +2 circumstance bonus to their save.
After you use this action, your weapon must cool off and
can’t be used until after your next turn or until you take any
amount of cold damage.
10TH LEVEL
ANCHORING IMPACTS FEAT 10
SOLDIER SUPPRESSED
Prerequisites suppressing fire
Your suppressing attacks pin foes in place, preventing
them from moving at more than a crawling pace. When you
suppress a target with one of your attacks, increase the
speed penalty to a –20-foot status penalty for the duration
of the suppressed condition. If the effect that imparted the
suppressed condition was a critical hit, or the target critically
fails its save and becomes suppressed, then the target also
becomes stunned 1.
BRUTAL BARRAGE [one-action] FEAT 10
FLOURISH SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding an area or automatic weapon.
You prepare the perfect shot, able to tear through those closest
to the impact point. If your next action is to Area Fire, Auto-
Fire, or Whirling Swipe, add two additional weapon damage
dice to targets who are adjacent to the center point of impact
or within the first 10 feet of a cone or line.
COME GET SOME! [reaction] FEAT 10
SOLDIER
Frequency once per day
Trigger You are reduced to 0 Hit Points and would fall
unconscious.
You fight on to the absolute last, pushing yourself to make
one final attack at a foe. Make a Strike with a –2 circumstance
penalty, or make an Area Fire or Auto-Fire attack ignoring the
unwieldy trait and with the save DC decreased by 2. After the
attack is concluded, you immediately fall unconscious and gain
the dying condition.
DANCE! FEAT 10
SOLDIER SUPPRESSED
Prerequisites suppressing fire
You compel enemies to avoid your attacks by aiming at their
legs, wings, or other forms of movement to make them easier
to outmaneuver. When you suppress a target with one of your
attacks, it also becomes off-guard until the start of its turn.
In addition, when Auto-Firing in a cone that affects only a
single target, that target takes a –1 circumstance penalty to
Reflex saves against the Auto-Fire attack.
SHELL SHOWER [free-action] FEAT 10
SOLDIER
Frequency once per round
Whether you got tired of getting hit in the face or slipping on
bullet casings in the middle of a fight, you’ve learned how to
redirect your weapon’s spent ammunition or terrain warping
vented energy while firing off a barrage. After you make an
Area Fire or Auto-Fire attack with a weapon, make any number
of squares adjacent to you difficult terrain. If a square was
already difficult terrain, it instead becomes greater difficult
terrain. Any difficult or greater difficult terrain created by this
action remains in place until cleared.
12TH LEVEL
BULLET HELL [two-actions] FEAT 12
SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding an automatic or area (cone)
weapon.
You fire your weapon in sustained bursts to unleash a consistent
deluge of firepower that tears apart the terrain to become
treacherous. Make an Area Fire or Auto-Fire attack with your
weapon. Until the start of your next turn, any creature that
moves through the area you attacked takes 1d4 damage of
the same type as the weapon fired per square traversed, with
a basic Reflex save at the end of each move action it takes
through the area. On a failure, a creature becomes suppressed
until the start of your next turn.
DEATH BLOSSOM [three-actions] FEAT 12
SOLDIER
Prerequisites Run Hot
Requirements You’re wielding an area or automatic weapon
with a full magazine.
Spinning in place, you fire indiscriminately to completely
clear out the room. You Area Fire (even if using an automatic
weapon), affecting each creature in an emanation around you
with a radius equal to the range of the weapon, expending
the weapon’s entire magazine. Creatures in the area take a –1
circumstance penalty to Reflex saves against this attack due to
the cataclysmic nature of the raining fire. You don’t designate a
primary target with this attack.
159
HAMMER THE NAIL FEAT 12
SOLDIER
Prerequisites Shoving Shot
You adjust the angle of your barrage to maximize the
ammunition’s impact on creatures’ bodies. Increase the
distance creatures are pushed by your Shoving Shot to 5
feet on a success, 10 feet on a failure, and 20 feet on a
critical failure. In addition, on a critical failure, the target is
also knocked prone.
LOAD-BEARING HERO [reaction] FEAT 12
SOLDIER
Trigger You and one adjacent ally attempt a Reflex or
Fortitude save against the same effect.
Whether holding up a crumbling ceiling or jumping into
a fireball, you interpose yourself between your ally and
incoming danger. The result of your save becomes one
degree worse, but the result of your ally’s save becomes
one degree higher.
ROCKET JUMP [two-actions] FEAT 12
SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding an area (burst) weapon.
You fire your weapon as you jump, using the explosion to
propel yourself to new heights or just out of a situation
more dangerous than an explosion. You make an Area Fire
and then Leap, using your weapon to add a status bonus
to the distance traveled equal to double the burst of your
weapon. You must be somewhere within the area of the
weapon’s area attack, but you don’t have to save against the
effect of your attack.
Movement made as part of this action doesn’t trigger
reactions, though Area Fire still triggers them normally.
14TH LEVEL
FAN THE HAMMER [one-action] FEAT 14
SOLDIER
Frequency once per round
Requirements Your last action this turn was an Area Fire
or Auto-Fire.
You hold down the trigger and continue blasting. You Area
Fire or Auto-Fire, ignoring your weapon’s unwieldy trait.
You don’t designate a primary target with this attack,
and creatures you damage with this attack don’t gain the
suppressed condition.
RUN, COWARDS! FEAT 14
SOLDIER
You use your weapon to help corral panicked enemies. An
enemy who critically fails a save against your Area Fire or
Auto-Fire is fleeing for 1 round.
SCATTERING FIRE [two-actions] FEAT 14
SOLDIER
Prerequisites Shoving Shot
Your overwhelming onslaught scatters enemies like leaves
in the wind. When you Shoving Shot, all creatures in the
area attempt the Fortitude save to avoid forced movement,
rather than just your primary target.
TERROR-FORMING [two-actions] FEAT 14
SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding an area or automatic weapon.
Your weapon blasts apart the battlefield and leaves it
a ruinous waste. You Area Fire or Auto-Fire. You don’t
designate a primary target, but instead make each square
in the area of your attack difficult terrain. If a square was
already difficult terrain, it becomes greater difficult terrain.
Any difficult or greater difficult terrain created by this action
remains in place and can’t be changed without extensive
engineering or magic.
VECTOR REFLECTOR [reaction] FEAT 14
SOLDIER
Trigger A suppressed creature damages you with a Strike.
Your armor absorbs some of the kinetic energy of your
opponent’s attack. You gain resistance equal to half your
level against the triggering damage (or equal to your level
if you have the armor storm fighting style). If the triggering
creature is within reach, attempt an Athletics check to
Shove it.
16TH LEVEL
LIGHT ‘EM UP [two-actions] FEAT 16
SOLDIER SUPPRESSED
Requirements You’re wielding an area or automatic weapon.
Your opponents can run, but they can’t hide! You spray
your weapon in the general direction of an unseen enemy,
revealing its location. You Area Fire or Auto-Fire. If the
primary target is concealed, you don’t need to attempt a
flat check to target it, and if it’s hidden, the DC of the flat
check to target it is 5. When you suppress a concealed
creature with this attack, the debris around it helps reveal
its current position, and no flat check is needed to target it;
If it’s hidden, the DC of the flat check to target it becomes 5,
and the creature can’t become undetected. This benefit lasts
as long as the creature remains suppressed.
OVERKILL FEAT 16
SOLDIER SUPPRESSED
Sometimes there’s no better way to assure success than to
pin a hapless enemy with concentrated firepower. When
you suppress a creature with Area Fire or Auto-Fire and
only one creature was in the area of your attack, or when
you use Concentrated Shot, the target takes 1d10 persistent
bleed damage. If you critically hit it with your primary target
Strike, this increases to 2d10 persistent bleed damage.
SOLDIER’S TRAINING FEAT 16
SOLDIER
Constant drills and combat experience leave you with
reflexes capable of making snap decisions. Choose one
160
3
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
soldier class feat you have that grants a reaction. At the
start of your turn, you gain an additional reaction that you
can only use for the selected class feat or an action granted
by the selected class feat.
You can change the reaction selected for this feat when
you make your daily preparations as long as the new feat
meets the requirements.
18TH LEVEL
COORDINATED FIRE [three-actions] FEAT 18
AUDITORY SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding an area or automatic weapon.
With a mighty bellow, you unload your weapon to give
your allies the cover they need to rally. You Area Fire
or Auto-Fire without selecting a primary target. Give a
verbal order as part of your firing, selecting either Reload,
Strike, or Take Cover. Every ally within 30 feet who hears
and understands your order can perform the action you
selected as a reaction.
DAMORITOSH’S GRIP FEAT 18
SOLDIER
You have become a legendary soldier on par with the
saints of Damoritosh and need not choose between the
destructive power of your firearm and the honor of your
personal armament. You can wield two-handed weapons
in one hand.
SPREAD THE LOVE [two-actions] FEAT 18
SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding an area or automatic weapon.
You skillfully line up your attack to harry two targets
within your blast zone with equal lethality. You Area
Fire or Auto-Fire, selecting two different primary targets,
rather than one.
20TH LEVEL
BULLET TYPHOON FEAT 20
SOLDIER
Your destructive power has become second nature as
enemies stand in awe of your overwhelming firepower. You
can use the Area Fire or Auto-Fire attacks as a single action.
However, you can never make more than two such attacks
in the same round.
HYBRID TECHNIQUE [two-actions] FEAT 20
SOLDIER
Requirements You’re wielding an area or automatic weapon.
You can combine methods into a deadly new hybrid
technique. Choose two soldier feats that take 2 actions to
use, require you to wield an area or automatic weapon, and
cause you to make an Area Fire or Auto-Fire attack as part
of its effects. You Area Fire or Auto-Fire once and then apply
the additional effects and benefits of both selected feats to
the attack.
161
162
3
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
DURING COMBAT ENCOUNTERS...
You reshape terrain and manipulate events to match other realities. You cast powerful
spells and recenter yourself through your anchor when pushed to your limits.
DURING SOCIAL ENCOUNTERS...
You might solve problems with deductive reasoning or by determining mathematic
probabilities, drawing on your deep knowledge of the multiverse.
WHILE EXPLORING...
You seek magical auras and provide guidance regarding supernatural phenomena you
encounter while analyzing the environment around you. You might use spell gems to
bypass obstacles and protect yourself from dangerous environments.
IN DOWNTIME...
You craft magic items for your party. You might travel to other dimensions or distant
star systems as part of your training or embark on such journeys by accident.
YOU MIGHT...
• Travel to distant destinations and hunt for secret knowledge.
• Struggle to remain present without being distracted by all the possibilities.
• Remember an encounter with bizarre forces that changed you.
OTHERS PROBABLY...
• Fear your abilities or worry your warps might be dangerous.
• Dismiss your precognition or doubt your grip on your current reality.
• Hope you can solve their problems by rewriting reality.
CLASS FEATURES
You gain these abilities as a witchwarper. Abilities gained at higher levels list the
levels next to their names.
ANCESTRY AND BACKGROUND
In addition to the abilities provided by your class at 1st level, you have the benefits of
your selected ancestry and background, as described in Chapter 2.
WITCHWARPER
A strange paradoxical event forever altered your existence, and now you can manipulate reality. You
explore the infinite possibilities of the multiverse, possibly visualizing variant timelines or parallel
worlds. You create fields that subvert space and time, allowing you to cast powerful magic. You’ve
learned to focus on an anchoring memory, concept, or object to help you identify reality.
HIT POINTS
8 + Constitution modifier
You increase your maximum number
of HP by this number at 1st level and
every level thereafter.
KEY ATTRIBUTE
Charisma or Intelligence
At 1st level, your class gives you
an attribute boost to your choice
of Charisma or Intelligence.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level, you gain the listed
proficiency ranks in the following
statistics. You are untrained in anything
not listed unless you gain a better
proficiency rank in some other way.
PERCEPTION
Trained in Perception
SAVING THROWS
Trained in Fortitude
Trained in Reflex
Expert in Will
SKILLS
Trained in one skill determined by
your paradox
Trained in a number of additional
skills equal to 3 plus your Intelligence
modifier
ATTACKS
Trained in simple weapons
Trained in unarmed attacks
DEFENSES
Trained in light armor
Trained in unarmored defense
SPELLS
Trained in spell attack modifier
Trained in spell DC
CLASS DC
Trained in witchwarper class DC
163
ATTRIBUTE BOOSTS
In addition to what you get from your class at 1st level, you
have four free boosts to different attribute modifiers.
At 5th level and every 5 levels thereafter, you get four free
boosts to different attribute modifiers. If an attribute modifier
is already +4 or higher, it takes two boosts to increase it; you
get a partial boost and must boost that attribute again at a
later level to increase it by 1.
INITIAL PROFICIENCIES
At 1st level you gain a number of proficiencies that represent
your basic training. These proficiencies are noted at the start
of this class.
PARADOX
Your existence is contrary to the status quo of the universe,
causing quantum ripples that empower your spellcasting
talent and open doorways to other worlds. Perhaps you’re
from an alternate reality or a different timeline, or perhaps
you experienced an unnatural phenomenon that altered your
path, discovered a time-glitching alien device, or wrote a
treatise on quantum magical theory. Whatever your story,
you’ve become a living paradox.
At 1st level, choose your paradox. Your chosen paradox
determines the tradition of your spells, additional trained
skills, additional spells you learn, and the effects of your
quantum field. You also gain Focus Points and special
focus spells called warp spells based on your paradox. The
paradoxes presented in this book are found on page 167.
ANCHOR
Whatever paradox altered the course of your existence,
something helps keep you anchored to reality. This might be
a physical object you carry, memories of your home, or loved
ones. At 1st level, select an anchor. The anchors presented in
this book are found on page 168.
QUANTUM FIELD
You can draw on paradoxical forces to create a reality-warping
quantum field. It might manifest as a haze in the air that shows
shimmers of alternate realities, appear as walls of glowing
magical equations, or any other display you choose. The effects
of your quantum field are determined by your paradox. You can
further enhance and manipulate your quantum field through
your witchwarper feat selections and by casting warp spells.
You can activate or extend the duration of your quantum field
by using reality-warping magic.
You have the Warp Reality action, which lets you activate
your quantum field. This action gains the arcane or occult
trait based on the tradition of your selected paradox. You also
have Quantum Pulse, which lets you establish your quantum
field quickly at the start of combat.
WARP REALITY [one-action]
CONCENTRATE WITCHWARPER
Requirements Your quantum field isn’t active.
Your quantum field activates and lasts as long as you
Sustain it (up to 10 minutes) or until the end of your next
turn. Your quantum field is a 20-foot burst centered on a
point you choose within 100 feet. While your quantum field
is active, you can use actions that have the anchoring trait.
Your quantum field’s other specific effects are determined by
your paradox. Choose whether any given creature in the area
is affected by your quantum field when you Warp Reality,
each time you Sustain it, and when a creature enters your
quantum field. Each time you Sustain a quantum field with
the Sustain action (instead of an anchoring action), you can
move it to a new position within 100 feet.
Your quantum field automatically deactivates if you’re
knocked out, if you Dismiss it, or if you move more than 100
feet away from it.
QUANTUM PULSE [free-action]
WITCHWARPER
Trigger You roll initiative.
WITCHWARPER ADVANCEMENT
Your Level Class Features
1
Ancestry and background, attribute boosts,
initial proficiencies, paradox, anchor,
quantum field, witchwarper spellcasting,
spell repertoire
2 Skill feat, witchwarper feat
3
2nd-rank spells, general feat, isolated spell
matrix, signature spells, skill increase
4 Skill feat, witchwarper feat
5
3rd-rank spells, ancestry feat, attribute
boosts, reflex expertise, skill increase
6 Skill feat, witchwarper feat
7
4th-rank spells, expert spellcaster, general
feat, skill increase
8 Skill feat, witchwarper feat
9
5th-rank spells, ancestry feat, magical
fortitude, skill increase
10 Attribute boosts, skill feat, witchwarper feat
11
6th-rank spells, general feat, perception
expertise, skill increase, weapon expertise
12 Skill feat, witchwarper feat
13
7th-rank spells, ancestry feat, quantum
defenses, skill increase, weapon
specialization
14 Skill feat, witchwarper feat
15
8th-rank spells, attribute boosts, general
feat, master spellcaster, skill increase
16 Skill feat, witchwarper feat
17
9th-rank spells, ancestry feat, quantum will,
skill increase
18 Skill feat, witchwarper feat
19
General feat, legendary spellcaster, quantum
thesis, skill increase, warped infinities
20 Attribute boosts, skill feat, witchwarper feat
164
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
You’re always ready to let loose with your paradoxical
abilities, and when imperiled, you instinctively release a pulse
of quantum energy. As combat begins, you Warp Reality.
WITCHWARPER SPELLCASTING
Your paradox grants you magical power. You can cast spells
using the Cast a Spell activity. As a witchwarper, when you
cast spells, you might describe your revelations about other
realities aloud, accompanied by elegant gestures while arcane
equations or occult symbols blaze around you.
Each day, you can cast up to three 1st-rank spells. You
must know spells to cast them, and you learn them via the
spell repertoire class feature. The number of spells you can
cast each day is called your spell slots.
As you increase in level as a witchwarper, your number of
spells per day increases, as does the highest rank of spells
you can cast, as shown on the table on page 167.
Some of your spells require you to attempt a spell attack to
see how effective they are or have your enemies roll against
your spell DC (typically by attempting a saving throw). Your spell
attack modifiers and spell DCs use your Charisma or Intelligence
modifier, depending on which you chose for your key attribute.
Details on calculating these statistics appear on pages 394–395.
Heightening Spells
When you get spell slots of 2nd rank and higher, you can fill
those slots with stronger versions of lower-rank spells. This
increases the spell’s rank, heightening it to match the spell
slot. You must have a spell in your spell repertoire at the rank
you want to cast in order to heighten it to that rank. Many
spells have specific improvements when they’re heightened to
certain ranks.
Cantrips
Some of your spells are cantrips. A cantrip is a special type
of spell that doesn’t use spell slots. You can cast a cantrip
at will, any number of times per day. A cantrip is always
automatically heightened to half your level rounded up—this
is usually equal to the highest rank of witchwarper spell
slot you have. For example, as a 1st-level witchwarper, your
cantrips are 1st-rank spells, and as a 5th-level witchwarper,
your cantrips are 3rd-rank spells.
Warp Spells
You can create powerful magical phenomena known as warp
spells. Warp spells are a type of focus spell. It costs 1 Focus
Point to cast a warp spell, and you start with a focus pool
of 1 Focus Point. You refill your focus pool during your daily
preparations, and you can regain 1 Focus Point by spending
10 minutes using the Refocus activity to contemplate infinite
worlds or conduct quantum magical research.
Focus spells are automatically heightened to half your level
rounded up, much like cantrips. Focus spells don’t require spell
slots, and you can’t cast them using spell slots. Taking feats can
give you more focus spells and increase the size of your focus
pool, though your focus pool can never hold more than 3 Focus
Points. The full rules for focus spells appear on page 296.
Warp spells have the anchoring trait (see Key Terms on
page 168), unlike other focus spells. This trait means you can
only use warp spells while your quantum field is active, and
you automatically Sustain your quantum field when you cast
warp spells.
You learn warp spells based on your paradox.
SPELL REPERTOIRE
The collection of spells you can cast is called your spell
repertoire. At 1st level, you learn two 1st-rank spells of your
choice and four cantrips of your choice as well as an additional
spell and cantrip from your paradox. You choose these from
the common spells from the tradition corresponding to your
paradox. You can cast any spell in your spell repertoire by
using a spell slot of an appropriate spell rank.
You add to this spell repertoire as you increase in level.
Each time you get a spell slot (see Witchwarper Spells per
Day on page 167), you add a spell to your spell repertoire of
the same rank. At 2nd level, select another 1st-rank spell; at
3rd level, you gain a new spell from your paradox and two
other 2nd-rank spells, and so on. When you add spells, you
might add a higher-rank version of a spell you already have,
so you can cast a heightened version of that spell.
Though you gain them at the same rate, your spell slots
and the spells in your spell repertoire are separate. If a feat or
other ability adds a spell to your spell repertoire, it wouldn’t
give you another spell slot, and vice versa.
Swapping Spells in Your Repertoire
As you gain new spells in your repertoire, you might want to
replace some of the spells you previously learned. Each time
you gain a level and learn new spells, you can swap out one
of your old spells for a different spell of the same rank. This
spell can be a cantrip, but you can’t swap out spells gained
from your paradox. You can also swap out spells by retraining
during downtime.
SKILL FEATS 2ND
At 2nd level and every even-numbered level thereafter, you
gain a skill feat. Skill feats can be found in Chapter 5 and
have the skill trait. You must be trained or better in the
corresponding skill to select a skill feat.
WITCHWARPER FEATS 2ND
At 2nd level and every even-numbered level thereafter, you
gain a witchwarper class feat. These feats begin on page 169.
ISOLATED SPELL MATRIX 3RD
You can cast spells directly into your quantum field. You gain
the Isolated Spell Matrix action.
ISOLATED SPELL MATRIX [one-action]
ANCHORING SPELLSHAPE
If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell that has a range,
increase the spell’s range to 100 feet. That spell only affects
targets inside your quantum field, and the area of the spell
doesn’t extend beyond your quantum field.
165
GENERAL FEATS 3RD
At 3rd level and every 4 levels thereafter, you gain a general
feat. General feats are listed in Chapter 5.
SIGNATURE SPELLS 3RD
You’ve learned to cast some of your spells more flexibly.
For each spell rank you have access to, choose one spell
of that rank to be a signature spell. You don’t need to learn
heightened versions of signature spells separately; instead,
you can heighten these spells freely. If you’ve learned a
signature spell at a higher rank than its minimum, you can
also cast all its lower-rank versions without learning those
separately. If you swap out a signature spell, you can choose
a replacement signature spell of the same spell rank at
which you learned the previous spell. You can also retrain
specifically to change a signature spell to a different
spell of that rank without swapping any spells; this
takes as much time as retraining a spell normally does.
SKILL INCREASES 3RD
At 3rd level and every 2 levels thereafter, you gain a skill
increase. You can use this increase either to increase your
proficiency rank to trained in one skill you’re untrained in or
to increase your proficiency rank in one skill in which you’re
already trained to expert.
At 7th level, you can use skill increases to increase your
proficiency rank to master in a skill in which you’re already
an expert, and at 15th level, you can use them to increase
your proficiency rank to legendary in a skill in which you’re
already a master.
ANCESTRY FEATS 5TH
In addition to the ancestry feat you started with, you gain an
ancestry feat at 5th level and every 4 levels thereafter. The
list of ancestry feats available to you can be found in your
ancestry’s entry in Chapter 2.
REFLEX EXPERTISE 5TH
Your awareness of possible dangers, through incredible
analysis or an understanding of the wider multiverse,
increases your reflexes. Your proficiency rank for Reflex
saves increases to expert.
EXPERT SPELLCASTER 7TH
Extended practice of magic has improved your capabilities.
Your proficiency ranks for class DC, spell attack
modifier, and spell DC increase to expert.
MAGICAL FORTITUDE
9TH
Magical power has improved your body’s
resiliency. Your proficiency rank for Fortitude
saves increases to expert.
PERCEPTION EXPERTISE
11TH
You remain alert to threats. Your proficiency
rank for Perception increases to expert.
WEAPON EXPERTISE 11TH
You’ve gained a broader understanding of
conventional weaponry to augment your
unconventional spellcasting. Your proficiency rank
for simple weapons and unarmed attacks increases to
expert.
QUANTUM DEFENSES 13TH
The flow of your spellcasting and your defensive training
combine to help you avoid attacks. Your proficiency ranks in
light armor and unarmored defense increase to expert.
WEAPON SPECIALIZATION 13TH
You’ve learned how to inflict greater injuries with the weapons
you know best. You deal 2 additional damage with weapons
and unarmed attacks in which you’re an expert. This damage
increases to 3 if you’re a master and 4 if you’re legendary.
166
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
MASTER SPELLCASTER 15TH
Your spells are among the most potent across all possible
worlds. Your proficiency ranks for class DC, spell attack
modifier, and spell DC increase to master.
QUANTUM WILL 17TH
The intense experiences you’ve accumulated through your
studies or travels have strengthened your mental fortitude.
Your proficiency rank for Will saves increases to master.
When you roll a success on a Will save, you get a critical
success instead.
LEGENDARY SPELLCASTER 19TH
You push way past the boundaries of magical theory to
embody the pinnacle of spellcasting. Your proficiency
ranks for spell attack modifier and spell DC increase to
legendary.
QUANTUM THESIS 19TH
You command the most potent magic and can cast spells
of truly incredible power. Add two common 10th-rank
spells of your tradition to your repertoire. You gain a single
10th-rank spell slot you can use to cast these spells, using
witchwarper spellcasting. Unlike with other spell slots, you
can’t use 10th-rank slots with abilities that give you more
spell slots or that let you cast spells without expending
spell slots. You don’t gain more 10th-rank spells as you level
up, but you can take the Quantum Research feat (page 173)
to gain a second slot.
WARPED INFINITIES 19TH
You’ve mastered your reality and a thousand realities beyond.
The radius of your quantum field becomes 100 feet. When
you activate or Sustain your quantum field, you can modify
the area of its effect by excluding any number of squares.
PARADOXES
Your paradox represents an event or force that forever altered
you. Your chosen paradox determines your spellcasting
tradition and grants you trained proficiency in the listed
paradox skill. You automatically add your paradox spells
to your spell repertoire, as described in the spell repertoire
feature. You gain the initial warp spell at 1st level and can
gain the advanced and greater warp spells by selecting the
Advanced Warp (page 171) and Greater Warp (page 172) feats.
Your quantum field gains the listed unique effect.
ANALYST
There’s a hidden code that powers the Universe and realms
beyond, and by focusing your intellect, you can tap into it and
see the equations.
Tradition arcane; Paradox Skill Computers
Paradox Spells cantrip: analyze target; 1st: sure strike; 2nd:
sift the sphere; 3rd: hypercognition; 4th: translocate; 5th:
subjective reality; 6th: truesight; 7th: retrocognition; 8th:
disappearance; 9th: foresight
Warp Spells initial: warp probability; advanced: alternate
outcome; greater: quantum analysis
WITCHWARPER SPELLS PER DAY
Spell Rank
Your Level Cantrips 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th 7th 8th 9th 10th
1 5 3 — — — — — — — — —
2 5 4 — — — — — — — — —
3 5 4 3 — — — — — — — —
4 5 4 4 — — — — — — — —
5 5 4 4 3 — — — — — — —
6 5 4 4 4 — — — — — — —
7 5 4 4 4 3 — — — — — —
8 5 4 4 4 4 — — — — — —
9 5 4 4 4 4 3 — — — — —
10 5 4 4 4 4 4 — — — — —
11 5 4 4 4 4 4 3 — — — —
12 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 — — — —
13 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 — — —
14 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 — — —
15 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 — —
16 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 — —
17 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 —
18 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 —
19 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 1*
20 5 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 1*
* The quantum thesis class feature gives you a 10th-rank spell slot that works a bit differently from other spell slots.
167
Quantum Field When you Seek or Recall Knowledge, you can
apply the result against two related creatures, hazards,
unattended objects, and effects in your quantum field.
Whenever you Sustain your quantum field, you can Seek
or Recall Knowledge against a target in your quantum field
as a free action.
ANOMALY
Your existence is an anomaly that defies the normal
parameters of your current reality. You might have
encountered something that disrupted your core existence,
or you crossed the veil from an alternate reality or twisted
timeline.
Tradition arcane; Paradox Skill Deception
Paradox Spells cantrip: stumble; 1st: shifting surge; 2nd:
dispel magic; 3rd: void whispers; 4th: eldritch wrath; 5th:
wall of stone; 6th: slice reality; 7th: death sentence; 8th:
void vessel; 9th: call cosmos
Warp Spells initial: warp terrain; advanced: warp world;
greater: parallel forms
Quantum Field Movements blur as images of alternate
iterations of your enemies flicker around them. When
an enemy in your quantum field attempts an action with
the concentrate trait, the action is disrupted unless they
succeed at a DC 5 flat check. The first time a creature fails
this check, it becomes temporarily immune for 24 hours.
GAP INFLUENCED
The Gap shaped you in some way, whether through enduring
study or personal experience. Perhaps you were born during
the Gap or lived through it thanks to an incredible lifespan,
stasis technology, or time travel.
Tradition occult; Paradox Skill Society
Paradox Spells cantrip: daze; 1st: delete; 2nd: instant virus;
3rd: entropy strike; 4th: confusion; 5th: synaptic pulse;
6th: repulsion; 7th: warp mind; 8th: disappearance; 9th:
phantasmagoria
Warp Spells initial: warp presence; advanced: forget; greater:
reality wipe
Quantum Field Supernatural static obscures you from sight.
You’re concealed to creatures within your quantum field.
When a creature within your quantum field hits you with
an attack, you lose this benefit against that creature until
the start of your next turn.
PRECOG
Some event has unstuck you in time. You might come
from the distant past or a far-flung future. Perhaps you’ve
traveled from some forsaken timeline to stop a cataclysmic
event. Whatever the reason, you’re now gifted with the
ability to see and manipulate time in a way that few others
comprehend.
Tradition occult; Paradox Skill Piloting
Paradox Spells cantrip: injury echo; 1st: fleet step; 2nd:
temporal bullets; 3rd: time’s edge; 4th: weight of ages; 5th:
chrono push; 6th: phantasmal calamity; 7th: true target;
8th: moment of renewal; 9th: foresight
Warp Spells initial: warp time; advanced: accelerate; greater:
time loop
Quantum Field You have a modicum of control of the
temporal flow that surrounds you. An enemy creature
that uses a move action inside your quantum field takes a
–5-foot status penalty to its Speed during that action. You
and your allies gain a +5-foot status bonus to Speed during
move actions that are used inside your quantum field.
ANCHORS
Your anchor keeps you centered, reminding you what’s
real, and helps counter the disorienting effects one might
experience by causing paradoxes. You select your anchor at 1st
level. Your anchor grants you a benefit and an anchoring effect
that occurs when you Sustain your quantum field, including
abilities with the anchoring trait.
CORE MEMORIES
No matter where you travel, precious memories keep you
tethered to reality. Whatever the nature and number of your
memories, you can focus on them to remind yourself which of
the infinite possible realities impacts you the most: your own.
Anchor Benefit During your daily preparations, choose a skill
you’re trained in. You gain Assurance in that skill. If you’re
expert in that skill, and the skill has the Recall Knowledge
action, you gain Automatic Knowledge in that skill.
Anchoring Effect Reduce your stupefied condition by 1. You
can only benefit from this once per round.
FOCAL POINT
You’re intensely focused on a specific subject, to the
point that other things fade into the background—even
KEY TERMS
You’ll see the following key terms in many witchwarper
abilities.
Anchoring: You can use abilities with the anchoring
trait only while your quantum field is activated. If you
use the ability on your turn, in addition to their stated
effects, they automatically Sustain your quantum field.
Spellshape: Actions with the spellshape trait tweak
the properties of your spells. These actions usually
come from spellshape feats. You must use a spellshape
action directly before Casting the Spell you want to
alter. If you use any action (including free actions
and reactions) other than Cast a Spell directly after,
you waste the benefits of the spellshape action. Any
additional effects added by a spellshape action are part
of the spell’s effect, not of the spellshape action itself.
Zone: These actions apply an additional effect to your
quantum field. You can apply the effects of a zone only
to a quantum field that doesn’t have a zone effect.
168
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
paradoxes and alternate realities. Your focal point might be
a field of study, an abstract concept, a hobby, or even your
favorite media.
Anchor Benefit Your single-minded focus helps you
concentrate. If a reaction would disrupt your spellcasting
action, attempt a DC 15 flat check. If you succeed, your
action isn’t disrupted.
Anchoring Effect Reduce your clumsy condition by 1, and
ignore the effects of the suppressed condition until the
start of your next turn. You can only benefit from this once
per round.
TANGIBLE OBJECT
A small object, usually something you wear or can hold with
one appendage, gives you comfort. It might be a trinket or
article of clothing with sentimental value, a gadget to fidget
with, or perhaps it just has a texture you find pleasing.
Anchor Benefit The presence or weight of your chosen object
helps ground you in this reality. You gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to both Perception checks and Will saves against
illusions and holograms.
Anchoring Effect Reduce your frightened condition by 1. If
you aren’t frightened, you instead gain a +1 circumstance
bonus to Will saves against fear effects and a +2
circumstance bonus to your Will DC against attempts to
Demoralize you until the start of your next turn. You can
only benefit from this once per round.
WITCHWARPER FEATS
At each level that you gain a witchwarper feat, you can select
one of the following feats. You must satisfy any prerequisites
before taking the feat.
1ST LEVEL
ANCHORING STRIKE [one-action] FEAT 1
FLOURISH FORTUNE WITCHWARPER
Requirements Your quantum field is active.
Battle can be disorienting, but for you, the intense mental
effort of striking your targets lends you additional clarity and
focus. Make a Strike. The Strike gains the following success
and critical success effects.
Critical Success The Strike gains the anchoring trait. You can
reroll the damage dice rolled for this strike, but you must
use the second result, even if it’s worse.
Success The Strike gains the anchoring trait.
DEBRIS ZONE [one-action] FEAT 1
ANCHORING WITCHWARPER ZONE
Whether it’s covered in debris, partially flooded, or otherwise
troublesome to traverse, the area of your quantum field
becomes difficult terrain.
OTHERWORLDLY SPELL [one-action] FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE WITCHWARPER
Your spell has an odd appearance or cosmetic effect. If the next
action you use is to Cast a Spell, creatures with the ability to
Cast that Spell don’t automatically know what the spell is. In
addition, creatures that witness your spellcasting take a –2
circumstance penalty to checks to identify the spell with Recall
Knowledge and checks to counteract the spell and its effects.
WITCHWARPER FEATS BY NAME
Use this table to look up witchwarper feats by name.
Feat Level
Advanced Warp 8
Anchoring Strike 1
Borrow Spell 14
Cantrip Expansion 2
Complete Transposition 18
Conceal Spell 2
Danger Zone 8
Debris Zone 1
Enlarge Quantum Field 6
Folded Paradoxes 16
Fundamental Understanding 2
Greater Warp 10
In Another Life 12
Infinite Magic 18
Meandering Mind 4
Multiverse Magic 14
Nonlethal Spell 2
Otherworldly Spell 1
Persistent Quantum Field 14
Feat Level
Predict Outcome 6
Predictive Positioning 2
Quantum Aura 6
Quantum Entanglement 8
Quantum Negation 20
Quantum Recycle 4
Quantum Research 20
Quickened Casting 10
Radiant Zone 12
Reach Spell 1
Scrub Psyche 2
Sense Abnormalities 12
Share Quantum Aura 10
Soothing Anchor 1
Spellsurge Ammo 4
Twisted Dark Zone 10
Warp Wounds 2
Widen Spell 1
Zone Overlap 16
169
REACH SPELL [one-action] FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE WITCHWARPER
You can extend the range of your spells. If the next action you
use is to Cast a Spell that has a range, increase that spell’s range
by 30 feet. As is standard for increasing spell ranges, if the spell
normally has a range of touch, you extend its range to 30 feet.
SOOTHING ANCHOR [one-action] FEAT 1
WITCHWARPER
Frequency once every 10 minutes
Requirements Your last action was to Sustain your quantum
field or had the anchoring trait.
You concentrate more deeply on your anchor to soothe yourself.
You gain temporary Hit Points equal to your witchwarper level
that last for 1 round.
WIDEN SPELL [one-action] FEAT 1
CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE WITCHWARPER
You manipulate the energy of your spell, causing it to affect a
wider area. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell that has
an area of a burst, cone, or line and doesn’t have a duration,
increase the area of that spell. Add 5 feet to the radius of a
burst that normally has a radius of at least 10 feet (a burst
with a smaller radius isn’t affected). Add 5 feet to the length of
a cone or line that’s normally 15 feet long or smaller, and add
10 feet to the length of a larger cone or line.
2ND LEVEL
CANTRIP EXPANSION FEAT 2
WITCHWARPER
Study broadens your range of simple spells. Add two additional
cantrips from your spell list to your repertoire.
CONCEAL SPELL [one-action] FEAT 2
CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE WITCHWARPER
Through sheer mental effort, you can simplify the incantations
and gestures needed to spellcast, leaving them barely
noticeable. If the next action you use is to Cast a Spell, the spell
gains the subtle trait, hiding the shining runes, sparks of magic,
and other manifestations that would usually give away your
spellcasting. The trait hides only the spell’s spellcasting actions
and manifestations, not its effects, so an observer might still
see a ray streak out from you or see you vanish into thin air.
FUNDAMENTAL UNDERSTANDING [reaction] FEAT 2
WITCHWARPER
Prerequisites analyst paradox
Trigger A creature, trap, or similar object within your quantum
field casts a spell that you don’t have in your spell repertoire,
and you’re aware of the casting.
If the triggering spell is common and you’re trained in the
associated skill for the spell’s tradition, you automatically
identify the spell being cast (you still roll to attempt to
get a critical success but can’t get a worse result than a
success). You or a visible ally within 60 feet targeted
by this spell gain a +1 circumstance bonus to your
PRECOG
Your connection to a temporal anomaly allows you to
manipulate time using magic.
Attributes
Prioritize Intelligence, then Dexterity and Wisdom to
improve your defenses.
Skills
Acrobatics, Computers, Occultism, Piloting
Paradox
Precog
Feats
Predictive Positioning (2nd), Predict Outcome (8th),
Quickened Casting (10th)
Spell Repertoire
1st akashic download, mind skewer, fleet step;
Cantrips analyze target, injury echo, measure, seek
the stars, telekinetic projectile
Sample Witchwarper
170
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
saving throw or your AC against it (or a +2 circumstance bonus
if you rolled a critical success).
NONLETHAL SPELL [one-action] FEAT 2
MANIPULATE SPELLSHAPE WITCHWARPER
You can alter offensive spells to be less deadly. If your next
action is to Cast a Spell that deals damage and doesn’t have the
death or void trait, that spell gains the nonlethal trait (page 256).
PREDICTIVE POSITIONING [reaction] FEAT 2
TELEPORTATION WITCHWARPER
Prerequisites precog paradox
Trigger An enemy damages you.
Requirements Your quantum field is active.
You reposition to a space you’d occupy in a different reality, free
from incoming danger. You instantly teleport up to your Speed
to an area within your quantum field. This movement doesn’t
trigger reactions based on movement and ignores hazards and
terrain, but can’t pass through walls or other such obstructions.
SCRUB PSYCHE [reaction] FEAT 2
FORTUNE MENTAL WITCHWARPER
Prerequisites Gap influenced paradox
Trigger You or an ally fail a save against a mental effect while
within your quantum field.
You scrub all traces of the triggering effect from the target’s
mind. The target rerolls their saving throw against the triggering
effect and must use the second result, even if it’s worse.
WARP WOUNDS [reaction] FEAT 2
WITCHWARPER
Prerequisites anomaly paradox
Trigger An enemy damages you.
Requirements An enemy or willing ally is in your quantum field.
Your reality shifts to partly overlap with another in which
someone else was injured in your stead. You gain resistance to all
damage against the triggering attack equal to half your level, and
one enemy or willing ally in your quantum field takes damage of
the same type equal to the amount of damage prevented this
way, with a basic Fortitude save against your class DC.
4TH LEVEL
MEANDERING MIND [one-action] FEAT 4
ANCHORING WITCHWARPER
Requirements Your quantum field is active.
You allow your mind to wander to things you find pleasant,
briefly shutting out all realities and protecting you from harm.
You gain a +2 status bonus to saving throws against mental
effects until the start of your next turn.
QUANTUM RECYCLE [reaction] FEAT 4
WITCHWARPER
Frequency once per day
Trigger You cast a 2nd-rank or higher spell, and the spell
targets a creature or area within your quantum field.
You expertly manipulate the effects of your quantum field to
ensure that some of the energy from your spell is preserved
and can be harnessed again. You regain an expended spell slot
one spell rank lower than the triggering spell.
SPELLSURGE AMMO [free-action] FEAT 4
WITCHWARPER
Frequency once per turn
Trigger You cast a non-cantrip spell.
You siphon spell energy into one weapon or grenade you’re
wielding. Until the end of your turn, the weapon or grenade deals
extra force damage equal to the rank of the spell and gains the
magical trait if it didn’t have it already. If the spell deals damage,
the extra damage becomes the same type as the triggering spell.
6TH LEVEL
ENLARGE QUANTUM FIELD [one-action] FEAT 6
ANCHORING CONCENTRATE WITCHWARPER
Your quantum field slowly encroaches on reality. Increase your
quantum field’s radius by 10 feet. Until your quantum field
deactivates, once per turn when you Sustain the quantum
field, increase its radius by an additional 5 feet (to a maximum
of 50 additional feet).
PREDICT OUTCOME FEAT 6
WITCHWARPER
Frequency once per hour
You spend 10 minutes opening yourself to the mysteries of the
multiverse by peering across different timelines or analyzing
probability simulations. You gain the effects of augury, except
you learn only about the dangers ahead; any results of “good”
are instead “nothing,” and results of “mixed” are instead “bad.”
QUANTUM AURA FEAT 6
WITCHWARPER
You can become the nexus of the warped reality you create.
Each time you use Warp Reality to activate your quantum field,
you can choose for your quantum field to be an aura around
you that moves with you. If you do, your Warp Reality action
gains the aura trait, and the quantum field you create is a
10-foot-radius emanation.
8TH LEVEL
ADVANCED WARP FEAT 8
WITCHWARPER
Your paradox begins to cement itself across your life. You
gain the advanced warp spell for your paradox.
DANGER ZONE [one-action] FEAT 8
ANCHORING WITCHWARPER ZONE
Your quantum field merges with a more dangerous reality,
becoming hazardous terrain that deals 1 damage to an enemy
each time it enters a square in the area. You choose the damage
type when you use Danger Zone, selecting from the following:
acid, bludgeoning, cold, electricity, fire, piercing, slashing, or
sonic. Increase the damage by 1 at 12th, 16th, and 20th levels.
171
If you’re legendary in Arcana or Occultism, you take only 1
minute to Predict Outcome.
QUANTUM ENTANGLEMENT [one-action] FEAT 8
ANCHORING CONCENTRATE WITCHWARPER
You prevent creatures from leaving your quantum field and
returning to reality. Until the start of your next turn, any
creature who begins its turn inside your quantum field must
succeed at a Will saving throw against your witchwarper
class DC to move outside your quantum field. On a failure,
the action is disrupted. A creature that succeeds at this save
is immune to your Quantum Entanglement for 24 hours.
10TH LEVEL
GREATER WARP FEAT 10
WITCHWARPER
You breach the veil of paradoxical understanding. You gain
the greater warp spell for your paradox.
QUICKENED CASTING [free-action] FEAT 10
CONCENTRATE SPELLSHAPE WITCHWARPER
Frequency once per day
You accelerate your spellcasting. If your next action is to cast
a witchwarper cantrip or spell that’s at least 2 ranks lower
than the highest-rank witchwarper spell slot you have, reduce
the number of actions to cast it by 1 (minimum 1 action).
SHARE QUANTUM AURA [one-action] FEAT 10
ANCHORING CONCENTRATE MANIPULATE WITCHWARPER ZONE
Prerequisites quantum aura
Frequency once per 10 minutes
You temporarily share your quantum field with an ally. You
cause your quantum field to emanate from an ally you can
see instead of yourself. The ally gains all the benefits of your
quantum field, and your warp spells originate from your ally
instead of you until your quantum field deactivates. If you
cast warp spells at other targets, you must still have line of
sight to the target, but the spell originates from your ally for
purposes of determining its range and line of effect.
TWISTED DARK ZONE [one-action] FEAT 10
ANCHORING DARKNESS WITCHWARPER ZONE
You expose this reality to a realm of pure darkness filled with
gibbering voices and otherworldly entities. The area of your
quantum field functions as though it were an area of 2ndrank
darkness. Creatures that begin their turn in the area
must succeed at a Will save against your class DC or become
confused for 1 round. Creatures that critically succeed are
then immune for 24 hours. If this darkness is successfully
counteracted, the quantum field’s other effects remain.
12TH LEVEL
IN ANOTHER LIFE FEAT 12
WITCHWARPER
Whenever you rest, you behold different versions of yourself
in other realities. During your daily preparations, select
one ancestry feat for your ancestry that you meet the
prerequisites for and don’t already have. You gain that feat
until your next daily preparations.
RADIANT ZONE [one-action] FEAT 12
ANCHORING LIGHT WITCHWARPER ZONE
The reality you conjure is much brighter than your own. The
area of your quantum field becomes bright light. Creatures
who begin their in your quantum field must attempt a
Fortitude save against your class DC; creatures with light
blindness treat their result as one step worse.
Success The creature is unaffected.
Failure The creature is dazzled for 1 round.
Critical Failure The creature is blinded for 1 round, then
dazzled for 1 round.
SENSE ABNORMALITIES FEAT 12
DETECTION WITCHWARPER
You possess an uncanny sixth sense for ambient magic. You
can sense the presence of magic auras as though you were
always using a 1st-rank detect magic spell. This detects magic
in your field of vision only. When you Seek, you gain the
benefits of a 3rd-rank detect magic spell on things you see
(in addition to the normal benefits of Seeking). You can turn
this sense off and on with a free action at the start or the end
of your turn.
14TH LEVEL
BORROW SPELL [free-action] FEAT 14
CONCENTRATE WITCHWARPER
Frequency once per day
Trigger You use an action that Sustains your quantum field,
and the quantum field is still active.
By reaching across both time and space, you can borrow the
use of a spell from a version of yourself inhabiting another
reality. During this turn, you can cast one spell without
spending a spell slot to do so. The spell must be in your
repertoire.
MULTIVERSE MAGIC FEAT 14
WITCHWARPER
Your paradoxical nature has given you access to magic that
isn’t associated with your spellcasting tradition. You can have
one spell in your spell repertoire (not one on your paradox’s
spell list) that isn’t from your spellcasting tradition. Select
this spell when you select this feat. You can cast that spell
as a spell of your spellcasting tradition, and it becomes a
signature spell. You can change the spell you choose when
you gain a level.
PERSISTENT QUANTUM FIELD [two-actions] FEAT 14
WITCHWARPER
Frequency once per day
You can create a stable quantum field. You Warp Reality with
a duration of 1 minute.
172
3
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
PLAYER CORE
16TH LEVEL
FOLDED PARADOXES FEAT 16
WITCHWARPER
Prerequisites master in a paradox skill for a paradox other
than your chosen paradox
Your paradoxical nature has become multifaceted. During daily
preparations, you can replace one of your paradox spells with a
spell of another paradox that grants training in the prerequisite
paradox skill.
ZONE OVERLAP [one-action] FEAT 16
ANCHORING WITCHWARPER ZONE
Requirements Your quantum field is active with one zone
affecting it.
You cause a second zone to overlap your quantum field. You
can choose to apply another zone you’re able to create, or
apply the existing zone again, improving its effects as follows:
Danger Zone deals 1 extra damage, Debris Zone becomes
greater difficult terrain, and Twisted Dark Zone ignores the
temporary immunity of creatures that previously critically
succeeded at the save for 1 round.
18TH LEVEL
COMPLETE TRANSPOSITION FEAT 18
ANCHORING TELEPORTATION WITCHWARPER
The multiverse is a complex game—you use alternate realities to
move creatures on the board. When you use the Sustain action
to move your quantum field, you can teleport any number of
creatures within the quantum field’s original area to squares
of your choice in its new area. You also teleport any items
they’re wearing or holding. This gives the Sustain action the
teleportation trait. Each target can attempt a Will save against
your class DC. Targets who succeed at the save are unaffected.
INFINITE MAGIC FEAT 18
WITCHWARPER
You borrow spells from other realities. Twice per day, you can
cast a 9th-rank or lower spell after you’ve run out of spell slots
of the appropriate spell rank; the two spells you cast with this
feat must be of different spell ranks.
20TH LEVEL
QUANTUM NEGATION FEAT 20
WITCHWARPER
You expose a target to a reality in which they don’t exist. You
learn the quantum negation warp spell (page 380).
QUANTUM RESEARCH FEAT 20
WITCHWARPER
Prerequisites quantum thesis
You become a true embodiment of your paradox and surpass
what mortals can achieve in your reality. You gain an additional
10th-rank spell slot.
173
ARCHETYPES
Archetypes allow you to further customize your character concepts by taking more than one class.
You gain an archetype by selecting archetype feats instead
of your normal feats. First, find the archetype that best
fits your character concept. Then select that archetype’s
dedication feat, using one of your class feat choices. Once
you’ve taken the dedication feat, you can select any feat from
that archetype, as long as you meet its prerequisites. Most
archetype feats are taken in place of class feats, and so these
are called archetype class feats.
An archetype feat is subject to any restrictions on the class
feat it replaces. For example, if you had an ability at 6th level
that granted you a bonus class feat, but that class feat had to
be 4th level or lower and have the vesk trait, you could use
that class feat to take an archetype class feat, but only one of
4th level or lower with the vesk trait.
DEDICATION DETAILS
Each archetype’s dedication feat represents your character’s
dedicated effort learning a new set of abilities, making it
impossible to split your focus and pursue another archetype
at the same time. Once you take a dedication feat, you can’t
select a different dedication feat until you complete your
dedication by taking two other feats from your current
archetype. You can’t retrain a dedication feat as long as you
have any other feats from that archetype.
Multiclass Dedications
Most archetypes in this book have the multiclass trait.
These allow you to diversify your training into another
class’s specialties. You can’t select a multiclass archetype’s
dedication feat if you are already a member of that class.
ADDITIONAL FEATS
Some archetypes include a list of “Additional Feats” that
appear in other sources. The list includes each feat’s level,
which might be different than normal when gained from the
archetype. You can take the feat as an archetype feat of that
level, meaning it counts toward the number of feats required
by the archetype’s dedication feat. When selected this way, a
feat that normally has a class’s trait (such as the soldier trait)
doesn’t have that class trait.
FEATS THAT GRANT FEATS
Sometimes an archetype feat lets you select another feat,
such as a class feat of a lower level. You must always meet
any prerequisites of the feat you gain in this way. These
always count as only one feat for the purposes of your
dedication; for example, taking the envoy archetype’s Basic
Leadership feat to gain the Don’t You Die On Me! class feat
counts as only one feat, not two.
SPELLCASTING ARCHETYPES
Some archetypes grant you a substantial degree of
spellcasting, albeit delayed compared to a character from a
spellcasting class. The spellcasting ability from a spellcasting
archetype also allows you to use Cast a Spell activations of
items (such as spell chips and spell gems).
Spellcasting archetypes always grant the ability to cast
cantrips in their dedication, and then they have a basic
spellcasting feat, an expert spellcasting feat, and a master
spellcasting feat. These feats share their name with the
archetype; for instance, the witchwarper’s master spellcasting
feat is called Master Witchwarper Spellcasting. All spell slots
you gain from spellcasting archetypes are subject to the
restrictions within the archetype. For instance, the mystic
archetype allows you to pick a connection when you take
its dedication feat. If you pick a connection granting divine
spells, the archetype then grants you spell slots you can use
only to cast divine spells you prepare as a mystic, even if you
are a witchwarper with occult spells in your repertoire.
Basic Spellcasting Feat: Usually available at 4th level,
these feats grant a 1st-rank spell slot. At 6th level, they
grant you a 2nd-rank spell slot, and if you have a spell
repertoire, you can select one spell from your repertoire as
a signature spell. At 8th level, they grant you a 3rd-rank
spell slot. Archetypes refer to these benefits as the “basic
spellcasting benefits.”
Expert Spellcasting Feat: Typically taken at 12th level,
these feats make you an expert in spell attack modifiers
and spell DCs and grant you a 4th-rank spell slot. If you
have a spell repertoire, you can select a second spell from
your repertoire as a signature spell. At 14th level, they grant
you a 5th-rank spell slot, and at 16th level, they grant you a
6th-rank spell slot. Archetypes refer to these benefits as the
“expert spellcasting benefits.”
Master Spellcasting Feat: Usually found at 18th level, these
feats make you a master in spell attack modifiers and spell
DCs and grant you a 7th-rank spell slot. If you have a spell
repertoire, you can select a third spell from your repertoire as
a signature spell. At 20th level, they grant you an 8th-rank
spell slot. Archetypes refer to these benefits as the “master
spellcasting benefits.”
SPECIAL ARCHETYPES
Some archetype feats in other books have the skill trait,
allowing you to take them in place of a skill feat rather than
a class feat. A skill feat still counts to satisfy the requirement
of the dedication. There are also class archetypes that can
modify your class’s abilities as soon as 1st level. You can
never have more than one class archetype.
174
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
ENVOY
You step up and lead others to victory while manipulating
those who stand in your way.
MULTICLASS ENVOY
CHARACTERS
The envoy archetype allows you to take on a leadership role
by giving out directives that can support allies or hinder
enemies.
• Mystic envoys can choose between using their magic
or directives to empower their allies, widening the
breadth of options available to them.
• Operative envoys become incredibly precise killing
machines that can combine Aim with abilities like Get
’em! and Distant Feint. Ghost operatives also appreciate
extra feats that use Deception.
• Solarian envoys are beacons of hope amid a chaotic
battlefield leading the charge with feats like Pardon
Me and Get in There! A solarian envoy can use Adaptive
Talent to choose different Athletics feats based on the
terrain they expect to encounter.
• Soldier envoys make natural commanders who can
use their defensive capabilities to keep the bonuses
of their directive’s active against powerful enemies
while clearing out weaker foes with area fire. Erudite
warriors can take full advantage of Intimidation feats
like Quip and Cut ’em Deep.
• Witchwarper envoys make powerful battlefield
controllers that help maximize a partys mobility while
inhibiting their foe’s movement capabilities with area
spells and quantum field.
ENVOY DEDICATION FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE DEDICATION MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Charisma +2
You gain the envoy directives class feature (see page
104), but do not gain the Lead by Example benefits
of the Get ’Em! envoy directive. You become trained in
Deception, Diplomacy, or Intimidation plus another skill of your
choice. If you were already trained in Deception, Diplomacy,
and Intimidation, you instead become trained in an additional
skill of your choice. You also become trained in envoy class DC.
BASIC LEADERSHIP FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Envoy Dedication
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level envoy feat of your choice.
ADAPTIVE TALENT FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Envoy Dedication
You gain the adaptive talent class feature, but you do not
gain additional skill feats at higher levels.
Special You can select this feat a second time as a 10th level
feat and a 16th level feat, increasing the number of skill
feats you gain using adaptive talent by 1.
ADVANCED LEADERSHIP FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Leadership
You gain one envoy feat. For the purpose of meeting its
prerequisites, your envoy level is equal to half your character
level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time
you select it, you gain another envoy feat.
REALLY GET EM! FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Envoy Dedication
You gain the Lead by Example benefit for your Get ’Em!
directive, except you and your allies get a +2 status bonus
to damage on both the initial and subsequent Strikes.
LEADER’S CONFIDENCE FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Envoy Dedication
You gain the leader’s confidence class feature (see page
107).
175
MYSTIC
You channel a fundamental force of the universe.
MULTICLASS MYSTIC
CHARACTERS
Mystics support allies and themselves with powerful magic.
MYSTIC DEDICATION FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE DEDICATION MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Wisdom +2
Choose a connection (see page 119). You become trained in
the connection’s skill or, if you were already trained, you
become trained in a skill of your choice. You don’t gain any
other abilities from your choice of connection. You gain the
mystic bond class feature (see page 116).
You cast spells like a mystic and gain the Cast a Spell
activity. You gain a spell repertoire with two common cantrips
from the spell list granted by your connection, from the spells
granted by your connection, or any other cantrips of that
tradition you learn or discover. You’re trained in the spell
attack modifier and spell DC statistics. Your key spellcasting
attribute for mystic archetype spells is Wisdom, and they are
mystic spells of your connection’s tradition.
VITALITY NETWORK FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Mystic Dedication
You gain a vitality network with 10 Hit Points and can
use Transfer Vitality to transfer up to 10 HP. Increase the
maximum capacity of your vitality network by 10 at 10th,
15th, and 20th-level. Increase the amount you can transfer
by 5 at 5th, 10th, 15th, and 20th-level.
BASIC MYSTIC SPELLCASTING FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Mystic Dedication
You gain the basic spellcasting benefits (page 174). Each time
you gain a spell slot of a new rank from the mystic archetype,
add a spell of the appropriate spell rank to your repertoire: a
common spell of your connection’s tradition, or one of your
connection’s granted spells.
BASIC MYSTICISM FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Mystic Dedication
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level mystic feat.
ADVANCED MYSTICISM FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Mysticism
You gain one mystic feat. For the purpose of meeting its
prerequisites, your mystic level is half your character level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time
you do, you gain another mystic feat.
BASIC EPIPHANY FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Mystic Dedication
You gain your connection’s initial epiphany spell. If
you don’t already have one, you also gain a focus
pool of 1 Focus Point, which you can Refocus by
reflecting on your connection.
EXPANDED CONNECTION FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Mystic Spellcasting
Increase the number of spells in your repertoire and number
of spell slots you gain from mystic archetype feats by 1 for
each spell rank other than your two highest mystic spell slots.
EXPERT MYSTIC SPELLCASTING FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Mystic Spellcasting; master in
connection skill
You gain the expert spellcasting benefits (page 174).
MASTER MYSTIC SPELLCASTING FEAT 18
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Expert Mystic Spellcasting; legendary in
connection skill
You gain the master spellcasting benefits (page 174).
176
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
OPERATIVE
You’re a professional with crack aim and lethal instincts.
MULTICLASS OPERATIVE
CHARACTERS
The operative archetype allows you to deal high damage to
a single target and select class feats and exploits that add to
your offensive options in combat.
• Envoy operatives direct allies while lining up perfect shots.
• Mystic operatives might run out of spells, but they won’t
run out of shells.
• Solarian operatives can Aim their solar flare and enhance
their cycle combos with operative exploits.
• Soldier operatives with the striker specialization can
boost their attacks and add to their bag of tricks for
owning the battlefield.
• Witchwarper operatives combine operative mobility
feats with their quantum field to shake up enemy.
OPERATIVE DEDICATION FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE DEDICATION MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Dexterity +2
You become trained in simple and martial guns (see page 132
for the definition of a gun). You become trained in operative
class DC.
You gain the Aim action (page 128), it doesn’t deal additional
damage, but still reduces the bonus to AC your mark gains
from cover (which does not increase as you gain levels).
BASIC GUNNER FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Operative Dedication
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level operative feat.
SHARPSHOOTER FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Operative Dedication
Your ranged Strikes against the target of your Aim using the
required ranged weapon deal an additional 1d4 precision
damage until the end of your turn. This damage increases to
2d4 at 6th level.
SPECIALIZED OPERATIVE FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Operative Dedication
Choose a specialization. You become trained in one skill
determined by your specialization; if you were already trained
in that skill, you instead become trained in another skill of your
choice. You gain a skill feat associated with that skill. You don’t
gain any other benefits from your specialization.
OPERATIVE RESILIENCY FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Operative Dedication, class granting no more Hit
Points per level than 6 + your Constitution
You gain 3 additional Hit Points for each operative archetype
class feat you have. As you continue selecting operative
archetype class feats, you continue to gain additional Hit Points
in this way.
ADVANCED GUNNER FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Gunner
You gain one operative feat. For the purpose of meeting its
prerequisites, your operative level is half your character level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time you
do, you gain another operative feat.
OPERATIVE EXPLOIT FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Operative Dedication, Specialized Operative
You gain the exploit of your chosen specialization.
GUN EXPERT FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Operative Dedication, expert in any kind of
weapon or unarmed attack
Your proficiency ranks for simple and martial guns increase to
expert.
MASTER SPY FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Operative Dedication, expert in Perception
Your proficiency rank for Perception increases to master.
177
SOLARIAN
You are a solar knight attuned to the powerful forces
of gravity and light, manifesting the cosmic cycle into
armaments made of stellar energy.
MULTICLASS SOLARIAN
CHARACTERS
The solarian archetype allows characters to wield powerful
solar weapons and engage in melee combat.
• Envoy solarians can rush into close quarters to
properly assess an enemy’s abilities and positioning
when determining what directives to use.
• Mystic solarians can augment themselves with
powerful spells and heal themselves while confronting
power enemies on the frontline.
• Operative solarians might not be able to use their
manifestations with most of their class features, but
close quarters operatives can take advantage of the
solarian’s high mobility and gravity defying feats.
• Soldier solarians with the close quarters fighting style
can use their solar weapon to dispatch multiple foes at
once, while using solar flare as a potent ranged option.
• Witchwarper solarians can use gravity abilities to push
and pull enemies into their quantum auras.
SOLARIAN DEDICATION FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE DEDICATION MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Strength +2
You gain the stellar attunement class feature (page 140), but
you do not Attune as a free action when you roll initiative.
You become trained in solarian class DC.
You can manifest a solar weapon (page 141). Your weapon has
the attuned and solarian traits, but you can’t select additional
traits and it gains no benefits based on your attunement. You
gain the Re-Forge Solar Weapon action (page 141).
BASIC STELLAR ATTUNEMENT FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Solarian Dedication
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level solarian feat.
SOLAR WEAPON CUSTOMIZATION FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Solarian Dedication
You can select up to one trait from the list on page 141 for
your solar weapon. When you reach level 6, you can choose
a second trait, or the reach or two-hand 1d10 trait instead
of two traits.
SOLARIAN’S RESILIENCY FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Solarian Dedication, class granting no more Hit
Points per level than 8 + your Constitution modifier
You gain 3 additional Hit Points for each solarian archetype
class feat you have. As you continue selecting solarian
archetype class feats, you continue to gain additional Hit
Points in this way.
ADVANCED STELLAR ATTUNEMENT FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Stellar Attunement
You gain one solarian feat. For the purpose of meeting its
prerequisites, your solarian level is half your character level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each
time you do, you gain another solarian feat.
SOLAR FLARE FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Solarian Dedication
You can create and maintain a solar flare (page 140), but
do not add your Strength modifier to damage rolls with
your solar flare or any additional benefits based on your
attunement.
SOLAR NIMBUS FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Solarian Dedication
You gain the Nimbus Surge reaction (page 141), but do not
gain any additional benefits based on your attunement.
SOLAR MANIFESTATION EXPERT FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Solarian Dedication, expert in any kind of
weapon or unarmed attack
Your proficiency ranks for solar flare and solar weapon
increase to expert.
178
3 PLAYER CORE
INTRODUCTION
ANCESTRIES &
BACKGROUNDS
CLASSES
Envoy
Mystic
Operative
Solarian
Soldier
Witchwarper
Archetypes
SKILLS
FEATS
EQUIPMENT
SPELLS
PLAYING THE
GAME
CONDITIONS
APPENDIX
GLOSSARY &
INDEX
CHARACTER
SHEET
SOLDIER
You’re a stalwart shield who never stops blasting while
protecting your allies from danger, including from your own
terrifying destruction.
MULTICLASS SOLDIER
CHARACTERS
The soldier archetype is ideal for characters who want to
specialize in area attacks.
• Envoy soldiers are natural tacticians who use directives to
position enemies and allies to optimize their area attacks.
• Mystic soldiers with the elemental connection can make
different area weapons on the fly that deal different
types of damage.
• Operative soldiers become versatile damage dealers
that can use their area weapons in situations where Aim
isn’t as useful.
• Solarian soldiers can make use of Whirling Swipe to
damage multiple enemies at once with their solar
weapon.
• Witchwarper soldiers want to further
hamper their enemy’s movements and
are excellent at using grenades.
SOLDIER DEDICATION FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE DEDICATION MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Constitution +2
You become trained in Intimidation. If you
were already trained in Intimidation, you
instead become trained in a skill of your choice.
Increase your maximum and encumbered Bulk limits
by 2. You become trained in soldier class DC.
You become trained in light armor and medium armor. If
you already were trained in light armor and medium armor,
you gain training in heavy armor as well. Whenever you gain
a class feature that grants you expert or greater proficiency
in any type of armor (but not unarmored defense), you also
gain that proficiency in the armor types granted to you by
this feat. If you have a class feature that grants you expert
proficiency in unarmored defense and you’re 13th level or
higher, you also become an expert in the armor types granted
to you by this feat.
BASIC SOLDIER TRAINING FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Soldier Dedication
You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level soldier feat.
SOLDIER’S RESILIENCY FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Soldier Dedication, class granting no more Hit
Points per level than 8 + your Constitution modifier
You gain 3 additional Hit Points for each soldier archetype
class feat you have. As you continue selecting soldier
archetype class feats, you continue to gain additional Hit
Points in this way.
ADVANCED SOLDIER TRAINING FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Soldier Training
You gain one soldier feat. For the purpose of meeting its
prerequisites, your soldier level is half your character level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time
you do, you gain another soldier feat.
SUPPRESSING FIRE FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Soldier Dedication
You gain the suppressing fire class feature (page 152).
PRIMARY TARGET FEAT 10
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Soldier Dedication
You gain the primary target class feature (page 152).
SOLDIER’S TOUGHNESS FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Soldier Dedication, expert in Fortitude saves.
Your proficiency rank in Fortitude saves increases to master.
179
WITCHWARPER
You can draw on the infinite possibilities of other universes and
timelines to warp reality with powerful magic.
MULTICLASS WITCHWARPER
CHARACTERS
The witchwarper archetype allows you to cast reality warping
spells and manifest a quantum field.
WITCHWARPER DEDICATION FEAT 2
ARCHETYPE DEDICATION MULTICLASS
Prerequisites Intelligence +2
Choose a paradox (page 167). You become trained in the paradox’s
skill or, if you were already trained, you become trained in a skill
of your choice. You gain the Warp Reality action (page 164), but
your quantum field is a 10-foot radius burst.
You cast spells like a witchwarper. You gain access to the Cast
a Spell activity. You gain a spell repertoire with two common
cantrips from the spell list associated with your paradox, from
the spells granted by your paradox, or any other cantrips of that
tradition you learn or discover. You’re trained in the spell attack
modifier and spell DC statistics. Your key spellcasting attribute
for witchwarper archetype spells is Intelligence, and they are
witchwarper spells of your paradox’s tradition. You don’t gain
any other abilities from your choice of paradox.
BASIC DISTORTION FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Witchwarper Dedication
Your disruptive powers grow. You gain a 1st- or 2nd-level
witchwarper feat.
BASIC QUANTUM FIELD FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Witchwarper Dedication
Your quantum field gains the effect of your chosen paradox.
BASIC WARP SPELL FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Witchwarper Dedication
You gain your paradox’s initial warp spell. If you don’t already
have one, you also gain a focus pool of 1 Focus Point, which you
can Refocus by contemplating infinite worlds. (For more on warp
spells, see page 165.)
BASIC WITCHWARPER SPELLCASTING FEAT 4
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Witchwarper Dedication
You gain the basic spellcasting benefits (page 174). Each time
you gain a spell slot of a new rank from the witchwarper
archetype, add a spell of the appropriate spell rank to your
repertoire: a common spell of your paradox’s tradition, or one of
your paradox’s granted spells.
ADVANCED DISTORTION FEAT 6
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Distortion
You gain one witchwarper feat. For the purpose of
meeting its prerequisites, your witchwarper level is half
your character level.
Special You can select this feat more than once. Each time
you do, you gain another witchwarper feat.
QUANTUM BREADTH FEAT 8
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Witchwarper Spellcasting
Your repertoire expands, and you can cast more spells of your
paradox’s tradition each day. Increase the number of spells
in your repertoire and number of spell slots you gain from
witchwarper archetype feats by 1 for each spell rank other than
your two highest witchwarper spell slots.
EXPERT WITCHWARPER SPELLCASTING FEAT 12
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Basic Witchwarper Spellcasting; master in Arcana
or Occultism, depending on paradox
You gain the expert spellcasting benefits (page 174).
MASTER WITCHWARPER SPELLCASTING FEAT 18
ARCHETYPE
Prerequisites Expert Witchwarper Spellcasting; legendary in
Arcana or Occultism, depending on paradox
You gain the master spellcasting benefits (page 174).
180